help/user-guide/guidelines/add-guidelines.md, before:

---
title: Add guidelines to Adobe GenStudio for Performance Marketing
description: Learn how to add guidelines—[!DNL Brands], [!DNL Products], and [!DNL Personas]—in Adobe GenStudio for Performance Marketing.
feature: Content, Brands Service, Products Service, Personas Service, Guidelines
role: User
level: Beginner
exl-id: cb893b5d-b535-42f6-8dd8-8bd779d80a4f
---
# Add guidelines

[[!DNL Brands]](/help/user-guide/guidelines/brands.md), [[!DNL Products]](/help/user-guide/guidelines/products.md), and [[!DNL Personas]](/help/user-guide/guidelines/personas.md) are user-defined guidelines in GenStudio for Performance Marketing that ensure any AI-generated content is customized to align with brand identity, enabling effective personalization of content.

See the [guidelines overview](/help/user-guide/guidelines/overview.md).

Adding guidelines to GenStudio for Performance Marketing is an important step in the creation process. Guidelines inform the content creation process, along with user-defined prompts and Adobe generative AI technology, to craft impactful assets.

{{in-academy}}

## Add [!DNL Brands]

To add a brand, [upload a brand guide](#upload-a-brand) or [manually create a brand](#manually-add-brand) by selecting guidelines and entering your brand details. [Publish a brand](#publish-brand) to [!DNL Content] to make it available for use in future content generation.

In the left navigation area, click **[!DNL Brands]**. In the _[!DNL Brands]_ panel, select **Add brand**.

>[!TIP]
>
>Each brand operates independently with no hierarchical relationships. To create sub-brands under a parent brand, include the parent brand's information during the creation process.

### Upload a brand

You can upload your own brand guidelines documents—up to three PDF or DOC files—to GenStudio for Performance Marketing to automatically create a brand.

See [[!DNL Brands]](/help/user-guide/guidelines/brands.md).

**To upload brand documents**:

1. Select the **[!UICONTROL Add brand]** button and choose **Use brand guidelines**.
1. In the _Add new brand_ popup, enter a brand name and attach or drag in your brand guide.

   You can attach up to three PDF or DOC files.

1. Select **[!UICONTROL Add brand]**.

Using Adobe's generative AI technology, GenStudio for Performance Marketing extracts information from your uploaded documents and begins building your brand. You see brand information, such as brand voice, channel, and image guidelines, populate as each guideline from your brand documents is assembled.

A popup reminds you to review the extracted content before you [publish the brand](#publish-brand).

### Manually add brand

You can manually add brand details, instead of uploading existing brand documents, to populate a new [brand](brands.md).

**To manually add a brand**:

1. Select the **[!UICONTROL Add brand]** button and choose **[!UICONTROL Manually add brand]**.

   You can populate various optional guidelines and imagery to build out your brand.

1. Add information about your brand in the _About_ section.
1. Enter [_[!DNL Brand] voice guidelines_](brands.md#brand-voice-guidelines).

   ![Add [!DNL Brand] voice guidelines ](/help/assets/brand-voice-add.png){width="650" zoomable="yes"}

1. Enter [_Channel guidelines_](brands.md#channel-guidelines), for each applicable channel.
1. Enter [_Image guidelines_](brands.md#image-guidelines). Expand each category in the Image guidelines section to see all guidelines.

   Optionally, click **[!UICONTROL Add category]** to add a custom guidelines category, such as Photos or Illustrations.

1. Click into the _New brand_ title and enter a descriptive brand name.

To see your created [!DNL Brands], click the back arrow near the top of the _Brand_ panel to navigate back to the _[!DNL Brands]_ home.

You do not have to [publish](#publish-brand) your brand to make the information accessible. Any manually added information is available immediately after it is added. For others in your organization to use the brand info in GenStudio for Performance Marketing, you must publish it.

### Publish brand

Before publishing your brand, click through the _Brand voice guidelines_, _Channel guidelines_, _Image guidelines_, and _Logos_ sections to review all the populated information. Make changes to the brand guidelines as needed.

**To publish a brand guidelines draft**:

1. In the left navigation area, click **[!UICONTROL [!DNL Brands]]**.

   A _Published_ badge and the last date the brand was published is visible for all brands that are currently published.

1. Click to open an unpublished brand. If the brand is not published, a **[!UICONTROL Publish]** button is visible.
1. In the _Publish brand_ popup, verify who has access to view and use the published brand.
1. Select **[!UICONTROL Publish]**.
1. In the _Publish brand_ popup that appears, select **[!UICONTROL Publish]**.

   The popup confirms the brand is published—"New brand is now ready".

1. Click **[!UICONTROL Done]** to exit the popup.

The brand shows a green dot and "Published", and a **[!UICONTROL Publish]** button appears.

**To unpublish a published brand**, click to open it and click **[!UICONTROL Unpublish]**.

The published brand is now available for use in [_[!DNL Create]_](/help/user-guide/create/overview.md) or [_[!DNL Content]_](/help/user-guide/content/overview.md).

### Manage [!DNL Brands]

In the _[!DNL Brands]_ home, you can click to open an already-created brand to manage or publish it.

To **view brand information**, click **[!UICONTROL [!DNL Brands]]** in the left navigation area and click to open an existing brand.

**To modify a brand** in the [!DNL Brands] view:

1. In **[!DNL Brands]**, click to open a defined brand.
1. To view individual details or modify brand guidelines, click [**[!UICONTROL Brand voice guidelines]**](#brand-voice-guidelines), [**[!UICONTROL Channel guidelines]**](#channel-guidelines), **[!UICONTROL Image guidelines]**, or **[!UICONTROL Logos]** at the top.
1. To rename an existing brand, select **[!UICONTROL Rename]** from the _[!DNL Brands]_ action menu.
1. To duplicate an existing brand, select **[!UICONTROL Duplicate]** from the _[!DNL Brands]_ action menu.
   1. Enter a brand name in the _Duplicate brand_ popup and click **[!UICONTROL Duplicate brand]**.

      The popup confirms the brand is duplicated—"New brand created". The duplicated brand is initially in _Unpublished_ mode.

   1. Customize the duplicated brand and then [publish it](#publish-brand) to make it available for use.
1. To delete a brand, select **[!UICONTROL Delete]** from the [!DNL Brands] action menu.

You can also manage brands in the [!DNL Brands] view from the _[!DNL Brands]_ action menu (three dots).

## Add [!DNL Products]

To add a product, [upload a product guide](#upload-a-product) or [manually create a product](#manually-add-product) by selecting guidelines and entering your product details.

In the left navigation area, click **[!DNL Products]**. In the _[!DNL Products]_ panel, select **Add product**.

![Add a [!DNL Product]](/help/assets/products-add.png){width="650" zoomable="yes"}

You can add [!DNL Products] in GenStudio for Performance Marketing to specify individual product focus areas when creating content.

See [[!DNL Products]](products.md).

### Upload a product

You can upload product documents to populate new products.

See [[!DNL Products]](/help/user-guide/guidelines/products.md).

**To upload product documents**:

1. Select the **[!UICONTROL Add product]** button and choose **Upload PDFs**.
1. Click **[!UICONTROL Continue]**.
1. In the _Add your product_ popup, attach or drag in your product document.

   You can attach up to five PDF files with a maximum of 500 MG combined.

1. Select **[!UICONTROL Add products]**.

   Using Adobe's generative AI technology, GenStudio for Performance Marketing extracts information from your uploaded documents and begins building your products.

   A popup appears showing the progress of the product extraction from your documents.

1. In the _Building products_ popup, delete extracted products you do not want to use or rename products as desired.
1. If a product is missing, click **[!UICONTROL Add name]** and enter the name of the missing product.
1. Click **[!UICONTROL Confirm]**.

   A popup reminds you to verify and review the extracted products.

### Manually add product

You can manually add product details, instead of uploading existing product documents, to populate a new [product](products.md) in GenStudio for Performance Marketing.

**To manually add a product**:

1. Select the **[!UICONTROL Add brand]** button and choose **[!UICONTROL Add manually]**.
1. Click **[!UICONTROL Continue]**.

   You can populate various optional guidelines and imagery to build out your product.

1. Click **[!UICONTROL New product name]** and enter a name for the [!DNL Product].
1. Click into _Description_ and enter a description of this [!DNL product].
1. Click into _Value proposition_ and enter details about the product's value.
Click into _Messaging preferences_ and enter messaging details for the [!DNL product].
1. To edit the thumbnail, hover over the image thumbnail and from the Thumbnail actions menu select **[!UICONTROL Edit thumbnail]**.
   1. Upload a new image or remove the existing uploaded image in the _Upload_ tab.
   1. Choose an image from the gallery in the _Gallery_ tab.
   1. Click **[!UICONTROL Use image]**.
1. To edit the cover image, hover over the cover and from the Cover actions menu select **[!UICONTROL Edit cover]**.
   1. Upload a new image or remove the existing uploaded image in the _Upload_ tab.
   1. Choose an image from the gallery in the _Gallery_ tab and click **[!UICONTROL Use image]**.
   1. To reposition the cover image click **[!UICONTROL Reposition]**, drag the image into the desired position, and click **[!UICONTROL Save]**.

   To see your created [!DNL products], click the back arrow near the top of the _Product_ view to navigate back to the _[!DNL Products]_ home.

### Manage [!DNL Products]

In _[!DNL Products]_ home, you can **open an already-created [!DNL Product]** to edit or review it, or **delete a product** from the list:

* Select **[!UICONTROL Open]** from the [!DNL Products] action menu to revise and review an existing product.
* Select **[!UICONTROL Delete]** from the [!DNL Products] action menu to **Delete** a product.
* Select **[!UICONTROL Rename]** from the [!DNL Products] action menu to **Rename** a product.

## Add [!DNL Personas]

To add a persona, [upload a persona guide](#upload-a-persona) or [manually create a persona](#manually-add-persona) by selecting guidelines and entering your persona details.

In the left navigation area, click **[!DNL Personas]**. In the _[!DNL Personas]_ panel, select **Add persona**.

You can add a [!DNL Persona] in GenStudio for Performance Marketing to help target the content you create to your ideal audience.

See [[!DNL Personas]](personas.md).

### Upload a persona

You can upload your own persona documents to populate new personas.

See [[!DNL Personas]](/help/user-guide/guidelines/personas.md).

**To upload persona documents**:

1. Select the **[!UICONTROL Add persona]** button and choose **Upload PDFs**.
1. Click **[!UICONTROL Continue]**.
1. In the _Add your persona_ popup, attach or drag in your persona document.

   You can attach up to five PDF files with a maximum of 500 MG combined.

1. Select **[!UICONTROL Add personas]**.

   Using Adobe's generative AI technology, GenStudio for Performance Marketing extracts information from your uploaded documents and begins building your personas.

   A popup appears showing the progress of the persona extraction from your documents.

1. In the _Building personas_ popup that appears, delete extracted personas you do not want to use or rename personas as desired.
1. If a persona is missing, click **[!UICONTROL Add name]** and enter the name of the missing persona.
1. Click **[!UICONTROL Confirm]**.

   After extraction is complete, a popup reminds you to verify and review the extracted personas.

### Manually add persona

You can manually add persona details, instead of uploading existing persona documents, to populate a new [persona](personas.md).

**To manually add a persona**:

1. Select the **[!UICONTROL Add persona]** button and choose **[!UICONTROL Add manually]**.
1. Click **[!UICONTROL Continue]**.

   You can populate various optional guidelines and imagery to build out your persona.

1. Add information about your [!DNL Persona] in the _Description_ section.

   ![Add a [!DNL Persona]](/help/assets/personas-add.png){width="650" zoomable="yes"}

1. Click **[!UICONTROL New persona name]** and enter a name for the [!DNL Persona].
1. Click into _Description_ and enter a description of this [!DNL Persona].
1. Click into _Messaging preferences_ and enter messaging details for the [!DNL Persona].
1. To edit the thumbnail, hover over the image thumbnail and from the Thumbnail actions menu select **[!UICONTROL Edit thumbnail]**.
   1. Upload a new image or remove the existing uploaded image in the _Upload_ tab.
   1. Choose an image from the gallery in the _Gallery_ tab.
   1. Click **[!UICONTROL Use image]**.
1. To edit the cover image, hover over the cover and from the Cover actions menu select **[!UICONTROL Edit cover]**.
   1. Upload a new image or remove the existing uploaded image in the _Upload_ tab.
   1. Choose an image from the gallery in the _Gallery_ tab and click **[!UICONTROL Use image]**.
   1. To reposition the cover image click **[!UICONTROL Reposition]**, drag the image into the desired position, and click **[!UICONTROL Save]**.

   To see your created [!DNL Personas], click the back arrow near the top of the _Persona_ view to navigate back to the _[!DNL Personas]_ home.

### Manage [!DNL Personas]

In _[!DNL Personas]_ home, you can **open an already-created [!DNL Persona]** to edit or review it, or **delete a persona** from the list:

* Select **[!UICONTROL Open]** from the [!DNL Personas] action menu to revise and review an existing persona.
* Select **[!UICONTROL Delete]** from the [!DNL Personas] action menu to **Delete** a persona.
* Select **[!UICONTROL Rename]** from the [!DNL Personas] action menu to **Rename** a persona.

Commit message:

Minor additions to Add guidelines and Brands topics

help/user-guide/guidelines/add-guidelines.md, after:

---
title: Add guidelines to Adobe GenStudio for Performance Marketing
description: Learn how to add guidelines—[!DNL Brands], [!DNL Products], and [!DNL Personas]—in Adobe GenStudio for Performance Marketing.
feature: Content, Brands Service, Products Service, Personas Service, Guidelines
role: User
level: Beginner
exl-id: cb893b5d-b535-42f6-8dd8-8bd779d80a4f
---
# Add guidelines

[[!DNL Brands]](/help/user-guide/guidelines/brands.md), [[!DNL Products]](/help/user-guide/guidelines/products.md), and [[!DNL Personas]](/help/user-guide/guidelines/personas.md) are user-defined guidelines in GenStudio for Performance Marketing that ensure any AI-generated content is customized to align with brand identity, enabling effective personalization of content.

See the [guidelines overview](/help/user-guide/guidelines/overview.md).

Adding guidelines to GenStudio for Performance Marketing is an important step in the creation process. Guidelines inform the content creation process, along with user-defined prompts and Adobe generative AI technology, to craft impactful assets.

Guidelines can be user-defined, or exist as default guidelines such as the [default [!DNL Brand] channel guidelines](/help/user-guide/guidelines/brands.md#default-channel-guidelines).

{{in-academy}}

## Add [!DNL Brands]

To add a brand, [upload a brand guide](#upload-a-brand) or [manually create a brand](#manually-add-brand) by selecting guidelines and entering your brand details. [Publish a brand](#publish-brand) to [!DNL Content] to make it available for use in future content generation.

In the left navigation area, click **[!DNL Brands]**. In the _[!DNL Brands]_ panel, select **Add brand**.

>[!TIP]
>
>Each brand operates independently with no hierarchical relationships. To create sub-brands under a parent brand, include the parent brand's information during the creation process.

### Upload a brand

You can upload your own brand guidelines documents—up to three PDF or DOC files—to GenStudio for Performance Marketing to automatically create a brand.

See [[!DNL Brands]](/help/user-guide/guidelines/brands.md).

**To upload brand documents**:

1. Select the **[!UICONTROL Add brand]** button and choose **Use brand guidelines**.
1. In the _Add new brand_ popup, enter a brand name and attach or drag in your brand guide.

   You can attach up to three PDF or DOC files.

1. Select **[!UICONTROL Add brand]**.

Using Adobe's generative AI technology, GenStudio for Performance Marketing extracts information from your uploaded documents and begins building your brand. You see brand information, such as brand voice, channel, and image guidelines, populate as each guideline from your brand documents is assembled.

A popup reminds you to review the extracted content before you [publish the brand](#publish-brand).

### Manually add brand

You can manually add brand details, instead of uploading existing brand documents, to populate a new [brand](brands.md).

**To manually add a brand**:

1. Select the **[!UICONTROL Add brand]** button and choose **[!UICONTROL Manually add brand]**.

   You can populate various optional guidelines and imagery to build out your brand.

1. Add information about your brand in the _About_ section.
1. Enter [_[!DNL Brand] voice guidelines_](brands.md#brand-voice-guidelines).

   ![Add [!DNL Brand] voice guidelines ](/help/assets/brand-voice-add.png){width="650" zoomable="yes"}

1. Enter [_Channel guidelines_](brands.md#channel-guidelines), for each applicable channel.
1. Enter [_Image guidelines_](brands.md#image-guidelines). Expand each category in the Image guidelines section to see all guidelines.

   Optionally, click **[!UICONTROL Add category]** to add a custom guidelines category, such as Photos or Illustrations.

1. Click into the _New brand_ title and enter a descriptive brand name.

To see your created [!DNL Brands], click the back arrow near the top of the _Brand_ panel to navigate back to the _[!DNL Brands]_ home.

You do not have to [publish](#publish-brand) your brand to make the information accessible. Any manually added information is available immediately after it is added. For others in your organization to use the brand info in GenStudio for Performance Marketing, you must publish it.

### Publish brand

Before publishing your brand, click through the _Brand voice guidelines_, _Channel guidelines_, _Image guidelines_, and _Logos_ sections to review all the populated information. Make changes to the brand guidelines as needed.

**To publish a brand guidelines draft**:

1. In the left navigation area, click **[!UICONTROL [!DNL Brands]]**.

   A _Published_ badge and the last date the brand was published is visible for all brands that are currently published.

1. Click to open an unpublished brand. If the brand is not published, a **[!UICONTROL Publish]** button is visible.
1. In the _Publish brand_ popup, verify who has access to view and use the published brand.
1. Select **[!UICONTROL Publish]**.
1. In the _Publish brand_ popup that appears, select **[!UICONTROL Publish]**.

   The popup confirms the brand is published—"New brand is now ready".

1. Click **[!UICONTROL Done]** to exit the popup.

The brand shows a green dot and "Published", and a **[!UICONTROL Publish]** button appears.

**To unpublish a published brand**, click to open it and click **[!UICONTROL Unpublish]**.

The published brand is now available for use in [_[!DNL Create]_](/help/user-guide/create/overview.md) or [_[!DNL Content]_](/help/user-guide/content/overview.md).

### Manage [!DNL Brands]

In the _[!DNL Brands]_ home, you can click to open an already-created brand to manage or publish it.

To **view brand information**, click **[!UICONTROL [!DNL Brands]]** in the left navigation area and click to open an existing brand.

**To modify a brand** in the [!DNL Brands] view:

1. In **[!DNL Brands]**, click to open a defined brand.
1. To view individual details or modify brand guidelines, click [**[!UICONTROL Brand voice guidelines]**](#brand-voice-guidelines), [**[!UICONTROL Channel guidelines]**](#channel-guidelines), **[!UICONTROL Image guidelines]**, or **[!UICONTROL Logos]** at the top.
1. To rename an existing brand, select **[!UICONTROL Rename]** from the _[!DNL Brands]_ action menu.
1. To duplicate an existing brand, select **[!UICONTROL Duplicate]** from the _[!DNL Brands]_ action menu.
   1. Enter a brand name in the _Duplicate brand_ popup and click **[!UICONTROL Duplicate brand]**.

      The popup confirms the brand is duplicated—"New brand created". The duplicated brand is initially in _Unpublished_ mode.

   1. Customize the duplicated brand and then [publish it](#publish-brand) to make it available for use.
1. To delete a brand, select **[!UICONTROL Delete]** from the [!DNL Brands] action menu.

You can also manage brands in the [!DNL Brands] view from the _[!DNL Brands]_ action menu (three dots).

## Add [!DNL Products]

To add a product, [upload a product guide](#upload-a-product) or [manually create a product](#manually-add-product) by selecting guidelines and entering your product details.

In the left navigation area, click **[!DNL Products]**. In the _[!DNL Products]_ panel, select **Add product**.

![Add a [!DNL Product]](/help/assets/products-add.png){width="650" zoomable="yes"}

You can add [!DNL Products] in GenStudio for Performance Marketing to specify individual product focus areas when creating content.

See [[!DNL Products]](products.md).

### Upload a product

You can upload product documents to populate new products.

See [[!DNL Products]](/help/user-guide/guidelines/products.md).

**To upload product documents**:

1. Select the **[!UICONTROL Add product]** button and choose **Upload PDFs**.
1. Click **[!UICONTROL Continue]**.
1. In the _Add your product_ popup, attach or drag in your product document.

   You can attach up to five PDF files with a maximum of 500 MG combined.

1. Select **[!UICONTROL Add products]**.

   Using Adobe's generative AI technology, GenStudio for Performance Marketing extracts information from your uploaded documents and begins building your products.

   A popup appears showing the progress of the product extraction from your documents.

1. In the _Building products_ popup, delete extracted products you do not want to use or rename products as desired.
1. If a product is missing, click **[!UICONTROL Add name]** and enter the name of the missing product.
1. Click **[!UICONTROL Confirm]**.

   A popup reminds you to verify and review the extracted products.

### Manually add product

You can manually add product details, instead of uploading existing product documents, to populate a new [product](products.md) in GenStudio for Performance Marketing.

**To manually add a product**:

1. Select the **[!UICONTROL Add brand]** button and choose **[!UICONTROL Add manually]**.
1. Click **[!UICONTROL Continue]**.

   You can populate various optional guidelines and imagery to build out your product.

1. Click **[!UICONTROL New product name]** and enter a name for the [!DNL Product].
1. Click into _Description_ and enter a description of this [!DNL product].
1. Click into _Value proposition_ and enter details about the product's value.
Click into _Messaging preferences_ and enter messaging details for the [!DNL product].
1. To edit the thumbnail, hover over the image thumbnail and from the Thumbnail actions menu select **[!UICONTROL Edit thumbnail]**.
   1. Upload a new image or remove the existing uploaded image in the _Upload_ tab.
   1. Choose an image from the gallery in the _Gallery_ tab.
   1. Click **[!UICONTROL Use image]**.
1. To edit the cover image, hover over the cover and from the Cover actions menu select **[!UICONTROL Edit cover]**.
   1. Upload a new image or remove the existing uploaded image in the _Upload_ tab.
   1. Choose an image from the gallery in the _Gallery_ tab and click **[!UICONTROL Use image]**.
   1. To reposition the cover image click **[!UICONTROL Reposition]**, drag the image into the desired position, and click **[!UICONTROL Save]**.

   To see your created [!DNL products], click the back arrow near the top of the _Product_ view to navigate back to the _[!DNL Products]_ home.

### Manage [!DNL Products]

In _[!DNL Products]_ home, you can **open an already-created [!DNL Product]** to edit or review it, or **delete a product** from the list:

* Select **[!UICONTROL Open]** from the [!DNL Products] action menu to revise and review an existing product.
* Select **[!UICONTROL Delete]** from the [!DNL Products] action menu to **Delete** a product.
* Select **[!UICONTROL Rename]** from the [!DNL Products] action menu to **Rename** a product.

## Add [!DNL Personas]

To add a persona, [upload a persona guide](#upload-a-persona) or [manually create a persona](#manually-add-persona) by selecting guidelines and entering your persona details.

In the left navigation area, click **[!DNL Personas]**. In the _[!DNL Personas]_ panel, select **Add persona**.

You can add a [!DNL Persona] in GenStudio for Performance Marketing to help target the content you create to your ideal audience.

See [[!DNL Personas]](personas.md).

### Upload a persona

You can upload your own persona documents to populate new personas.

See [[!DNL Personas]](/help/user-guide/guidelines/personas.md).

**To upload persona documents**:

1. Select the **[!UICONTROL Add persona]** button and choose **Upload PDFs**.
1. Click **[!UICONTROL Continue]**.
1. In the _Add your persona_ popup, attach or drag in your persona document.

   You can attach up to five PDF files with a maximum of 500 MG combined.

1. Select **[!UICONTROL Add personas]**.

   Using Adobe's generative AI technology, GenStudio for Performance Marketing extracts information from your uploaded documents and begins building your personas.

   A popup appears showing the progress of the persona extraction from your documents.

1. In the _Building personas_ popup that appears, delete extracted personas you do not want to use or rename personas as desired.
1. If a persona is missing, click **[!UICONTROL Add name]** and enter the name of the missing persona.
1. Click **[!UICONTROL Confirm]**.

   After extraction is complete, a popup reminds you to verify and review the extracted personas.

### Manually add persona

You can manually add persona details, instead of uploading existing persona documents, to populate a new [persona](personas.md).

**To manually add a persona**:

1. Select the **[!UICONTROL Add persona]** button and choose **[!UICONTROL Add manually]**.
1. Click **[!UICONTROL Continue]**.

   You can populate various optional guidelines and imagery to build out your persona.

1. Add information about your [!DNL Persona] in the _Description_ section.

   ![Add a [!DNL Persona]](/help/assets/personas-add.png){width="650" zoomable="yes"}

1. Click **[!UICONTROL New persona name]** and enter a name for the [!DNL Persona].
1. Click into _Description_ and enter a description of this [!DNL Persona].
1. Click into _Messaging preferences_ and enter messaging details for the [!DNL Persona].
1. To edit the thumbnail, hover over the image thumbnail and from the Thumbnail actions menu select **[!UICONTROL Edit thumbnail]**.
   1. Upload a new image or remove the existing uploaded image in the _Upload_ tab.
   1. Choose an image from the gallery in the _Gallery_ tab.
   1. Click **[!UICONTROL Use image]**.
1. To edit the cover image, hover over the cover and from the Cover actions menu select **[!UICONTROL Edit cover]**.
   1. Upload a new image or remove the existing uploaded image in the _Upload_ tab.
   1. Choose an image from the gallery in the _Gallery_ tab and click **[!UICONTROL Use image]**.
   1. To reposition the cover image click **[!UICONTROL Reposition]**, drag the image into the desired position, and click **[!UICONTROL Save]**.

   To see your created [!DNL Personas], click the back arrow near the top of the _Persona_ view to navigate back to the _[!DNL Personas]_ home.

### Manage [!DNL Personas]

In _[!DNL Personas]_ home, you can **open an already-created [!DNL Persona]** to edit or review it, or **delete a persona** from the list:

* Select **[!UICONTROL Open]** from the [!DNL Personas] action menu to revise and review an existing persona.
* Select **[!UICONTROL Delete]** from the [!DNL Personas] action menu to **Delete** a persona.
* Select **[!UICONTROL Rename]** from the [!DNL Personas] action menu to **Rename** a persona.
