help/user-guide/guidelines/brands.md, before:

---
title: GenStudio for Performance Marketing [!DNL Brands]
description: GenStudio for Performance Marketing [!DNL Brands] are a comprehensive collection of brand assets—marketing copy, imagery, experiences, and more—to inform the creation of brand-aligned content.
feature: Brand Personalization, Variant Generation, Generative AI
exl-id: 34cd40d5-8851-48c2-8bf3-5a07eea05013
---
# GenStudio for Performance Marketing [!DNL Brands]

A brand distinguishes an organization, product, service or concept from others. Some aspects of a brand are objective, like a logo, while others are subjective, like tone of voice.

GenStudio for Performance Marketing uses the wealth of brand information from your [!DNL Brand], partners it with [!DNL Product] and [!DNL Persona] information, and builds out a comprehensive brand identity. This brand identity is used to inform the creation of on-brand content using Adobe's generative AI technology.

## Manage Brands

After adding brand guidelines to GenStudio for Performance Marketing, you can [manage](/help/user-guide/guidelines/add-guidelines.md#manage-brands) and [publish](/help/user-guide/guidelines/add-guidelines.md#publish-brand) them. Publishing makes them available for your team to use in asset generation.

[!DNL Brands] can be in either a _Unpublished_ or _Published_ state. New [!DNL Brands] start as _Unpublished_.

You must [publish a [!DNL Brand]](/help/user-guide/guidelines/add-guidelines.md#publish-brand) to make it available for asset generation by your team.

Published brands can be edited (changes are immediately available), duplicated, or unpublished. Only published [!DNL brands] can be used to create and validate content. See [Add guidelines](/help/user-guide/guidelines/add-guidelines.md#manage-brands).

Deleted [!DNL Brands] are archived for 30 days and can be recovered within that period.

## [!DNL Brands] guidelines

Guidelines give GenStudio for Performance Marketing a clear picture of your brand-specific approach, tone, visual feeling, and more.

Some channel guidelines, abstracted from [platform guidelines and ADA accessibility standards](/help/user-guide/guidelines/overview.md#compliance), are pre-populated as default values.

![Brand guidelines](/help/assets/brands.png){width="600" zoomable="yes"}

The following guidelines sections detail each guidelines category, examples guidelines, and potential results. The guideline examples are sample inputs that shape the results output (result examples below)—use them to inform your own brand guidelines.

### Brand voice guidelines

The following table shows each category of brand voice guidelines and guideline examples.

| Guideline category | Description | Best practices |
| ------------------| :---------- | :---------- |
| [!UICONTROL Tone of voice]       | Brand's personality as expressed through written communication | Use descriptive words to clearly convey brand's emotion and tone. <br>_Examples_: "genuine", "playful"<br><br>Be concise (3-6 guidelines) and focus on key brand voice attributes.<br><br>Select words/phrases that are consistent across communication channels to build coherent brand identity. |
| [!UICONTROL Brand values]        | Principles that drive brand culture, customer experience, and business strategies | Use descriptive words to convey brand's mission, vision, and audience needs. <br>_Examples_: "authenticity", "inspiring", "progressive"<br><br>Be concise (3-6 guidelines) and focus on core brand values/themes. |
| [!UICONTROL Editorial guidelines]   | Communication guidelines defining best practices for crafting brand messaging | Use positive phrasing (5-10 guidelines) to establish a strong foundation.<br>_Examples_: "Use simple, accessible language" instead of "Avoid using jargon"<br><br>Provide clear and actionable guidance. <br>_Examples_: "Keep sentences under 20 words" instead of "Be concise"<br><br>Reflect your brand's style, such as using specific syntax preferences. <br>_Examples_: "Use an em dash instead of a colon", "Use sentence case"<br><br>Craft precise guidelines that maintain consistency across outputs. |
| [!UICONTROL Editorial restrictions]  | Communication guidelines defining what to avoid in brand messaging | Use direct negative phrasing (5-10 guidelines) to specify what should be avoided. <br>_Example_: "Avoid using..."<br><br>Provide clear and actionable guidance. <br>_Example_: "Avoid rhetorical questions" |

### Image guidelines

The following table shows each category of image guidelines and associated values. You must [establish a category](add-guidelines.md#add-brands), such as 'General art guidelines' or 'Product photography,' in order to apply the image guidelines.

| Guideline category | Description | Values |
| ------------------| :---------- | :---------- |
| [!UICONTROL Description]       | General information for the specific category of image guideline added, such as "Product photography" or "General art guidelines" | Extracted from guidelines documents and manually configurable <br><br>_Example for General art guideline_: "Guidelines that apply to images that are not photographs, such as illustrations, and 3D renders" |
| [!UICONTROL Content type]       | Available content types for an image | _Art_ or _Photo_ |
| Composition      | Details regarding the placement of objects, camera, and photography techniques | Extracted from guidelines documents and manually configurable |
| [!UICONTROL Environment]    | Details regarding the environment, such as background elements in the image | _Example_: "Prefer to use a sunny environment" |
| [!UICONTROL Color]    | Details regarding color family, color temperature, primary/secondary/tertiary colors, hue, saturation, contrast | Extracted from guidelines documents and manually configurable<br><br>_Examples_: "Ensure product is the main focus with minimal distractions", "Vibrant colors" |
| [!UICONTROL Lighting]    |    General or specific details regarding the lighting | Extracted from guidelines documents and manually configurable<br><br>_Example_: "Place a ring light in front of the person" |
| [!UICONTROL Mood]    | Describes the feeling of an image | Extracted from guidelines documents and manually configurable<br><br>_Example_: "Images must always depict positive, joyous themes"|
| [!UICONTROL Restrictions]    | Things to avoid regardless of other guidelines | Extracted from guidelines documents and manually configurable<br><br>_Example_: "Avoid shooting photos in cloudy environment", "Avoid negative themes", "Colors cannot be washed out" |

### Channel guidelines

Each channel has certain inherent guidelines that influence channel asset composition.

The following table shows each channel section, channels for which it is available, description of the section, guideline examples, and example results.

| Sections | Channels | Description | Best practices |
| ------------------| --------- | --------- | -------- |
| General   | email, Meta, Banner and display ads | A second subject line or email preview text | Define overall tone/emotion to be consistent throughout email (2-5 guidelines).<br>_Examples_: "Maintain a friendly and approachable tone", "Avoid overly formal language"<br><br> |
| Subject    | email | A compelling and interesting title to summarize the content of an email | Provide specific guidance (2-5 guidelines) on tone, length, etc. Add previously successful subject lines in _Examples_ section for better quality output.<br>_Example_: "Align subject with email body" |
| Preheader        | email | A second subject line or email preview text |  Provide specific guidance (2-5 guidelines) on tone, ideal length, etc. Add previously successful preheaders in the _Examples_ section for better quality output.<br>_Example_: "Limit to 60-80 characters" |
| Headline          | email, Meta, Banner and display ads, LinkedIn | A title or phrase to grab the reader's attention | Provide specific guidance (2-5 guidelines) on tone, ideal length, etc. Add previously successful headlines in _Examples_ section for better quality output.<br>_Examples_: "Use punchy statements to grab attention" |
| Sub-headline          | email, Banner and display ads | A second or third title or phrase to grab reader's attention | Provide specific guidance (2-5 guidelines) that define tone, ideal length, etc. Add previously successful sub-headlines in _Examples_ section for better quality output.<br>_Examples_: "Use punchy statements to grab attention" |
| Description          | LinkedIn | Descriptive phrases that define overall tone-emotion | Provide specific guidance (2-5 guidelines) on tone, ideal length, etc. Add previously successful descriptions in _Examples_ section for better quality output.<br>_Examples_: "Maintain a friendly and approachable tone" |
| Body              | email, Meta, Banner and display ads, LinkedIn | Marketing content that includes message, links, and images | Provide specific guidance (2-5 guidelines) on tone, ideal length, etc. Add previously successful copy to _Examples_ section for better quality output.<br>_Examples_: "Limit to 80-100 characters", "Avoid excessive acronyms" |
| On-image text    | Meta, LinkedIn | Specific guidance on the tone, ideal length, etc. fo text that appears on top of images | Provide specific guidance (1-2 sentences) on tone, ideal length, etc. Add previously successful text to _Examples_ section for better quality output.<br>_Examples_: "Focus on the moment"|
| Call-to-action (CTA)        | email, Meta, Banner and display ads | (Call to Action) An instruction given to the reader that inspires a response. Usually one or two words, such as `Get started` | Provide specific guidance (2-5 guidelines) on tone, ideal length, etc. Add previously successful CTAs to _Examples_ section for better quality output.<br>_Examples_: "Do not use end punctuation"|

#### Default channel guidelines

The following default channel guidelines for [!DNL Brands] are applied per channel, based on industry best practices and individual platform specifications.

>[!BEGINTABS]

>[!TAB Meta]

| Section       | Default guideline                |
|---------------|-------------------------------|
| Headline      | Limit to 40 characters or less|
| Body          | Limit to 125 characters or less|
| On-image text | Limit to 5-6 words            |

>[!TAB LinkedIn]

| Section            | Default guideline                                |
|--------------------|-----------------------------------------------|
| Headline           | Limit to 70 characters or less to avoid truncation|
| Headline           | Limit to 200 characters              |
| Description        | Limit to 100 characters to avoid truncation|
| Description        | Limit to 300 characters           |
| Introductory text  | Limit to 150 characters to avoid truncation|
| Introductory text  | Limit to 600 characters      |
| Introductory text  | Maximum of four emojis                        |
| Ad name            | Limit to 255 characters or less               |

>[!ENDTABS]

<!-- Not in M2.1 // ### Image guidelines

Images have certain inherent guidelines that influence image composition.

The following table shows each category of image guideline, description of the category, and example guideline entries.

You can create your own categories, like Photos, Product, or Illustration imagery, and provide detailed guidelines for each category.

| Guideline category    | Description | Guideline examples |
| ------------------ | :---------- | -------- |
|Composition    | Define objects, focal point, position, aspect ratio, framing, and depth-of-field | `Ensure images are visually punchy, Avoid dull colors/shading` |
| Background     | Set the stage by describing layouts, location, places | `Should be friendly and action-oriented` |
| Restrictions   | List requirements or avoidances | `Avoid political imagery or topics, Avoid black and gray imagery, Avoid images displaying extreme strife or stress` |
| Color and tone | Specify color or color theme, palette, color interpretation and accessibility | `Use bright and bold color palette, Ensure high contrast` |
| Lighting   | Describe how highlights and shadows affect different objects| `Use natural light, Avoid using shadows` |

![Image guidelines in GenStudio for Performance Marketing](/help/assets/image-guidelines.png){width="650" zoomable="yes"}

### Logos

Add logos to your brand in the **[!UICONTROL Logos]** tab.

![Logo guidelines in GenStudio for Performance Marketing](/help/assets/logos.png){width="650" zoomable="yes"} -->

### Logos

[!DNL Brand] logos serve as visual symbols representing a company's identity, values, and products. You can upload one or multiple logos (not to exceed 1GB per file) for a [!DNL Brand] in JPG, JPEG, SVG, or PNG formats. Logos can be added during [!DNL Brand] creation or from the individual _[!DNL Brands] view_.

Each uploaded logo includes the following details within the logo tile:

- File type
- File size
- Resolution

From the actions menu (three dots) for a color, you can **[!UICONTROL Download]**, **[!UICONTROL Rename]**, or **[!UICONTROL Delete]** a color.

### Colors

Manage colors within individual [!DNL Brands] to ensure consistent and accessible text styling. Choose or define colors by a hex code or RGB code, and only solid colors are supported (opacity is not supported). You can add unlimited colors, view them in a gallery format, and rename them from hex or RGB code to a human-readable name.

![Brand colors](/help/assets/colors.png){width="600" zoomable="yes"}

From the actions menu (three dots) for a color, you can **[!UICONTROL Edit]**, **[!UICONTROL Rename]**, or **[!UICONTROL Delete]** a color.

## Brand validation

In GenStudio for Performance Marketing, brand validation plays a crucial role, in conjunction with the generative AI functionality of [!DNL Brands], [!DNL Products], and [!DNL Personas]. It ensures that all your content remains consistent with your brand identity and accessibility concerns.

See [Brand validation](/help/user-guide/guidelines/brand-validation.md).

Commit message:

Add info about non-English language for brands

help/user-guide/guidelines/brands.md, after:

---
title: GenStudio for Performance Marketing [!DNL Brands]
description: GenStudio for Performance Marketing [!DNL Brands] are a comprehensive collection of brand assets—marketing copy, imagery, experiences, and more—to inform the creation of brand-aligned content.
feature: Brand Personalization, Variant Generation, Generative AI
exl-id: 34cd40d5-8851-48c2-8bf3-5a07eea05013
---
# GenStudio for Performance Marketing [!DNL Brands]

A brand distinguishes an organization, product, service or concept from others. Some aspects of a brand are objective, like a logo, while others are subjective, like tone of voice.

GenStudio for Performance Marketing uses the wealth of brand information from your [!DNL Brand], partners it with [!DNL Product] and [!DNL Persona] information, and builds out a comprehensive brand identity. This brand identity is used to inform the creation of on-brand content using Adobe's generative AI technology.

## Manage Brands

After adding brand guidelines to GenStudio for Performance Marketing, you can [manage](/help/user-guide/guidelines/add-guidelines.md#manage-brands) and [publish](/help/user-guide/guidelines/add-guidelines.md#publish-brand) them. Publishing makes them available for your team to use in asset generation.

[!DNL Brands] can be in either a _Unpublished_ or _Published_ state. New [!DNL Brands] start as _Unpublished_.

You must [publish a [!DNL Brand]](/help/user-guide/guidelines/add-guidelines.md#publish-brand) to make it available for asset generation by your team.

Published brands can be edited (changes are immediately available), duplicated, or unpublished. Only published [!DNL brands] can be used to create and validate content. See [Add guidelines](/help/user-guide/guidelines/add-guidelines.md#manage-brands).

Deleted [!DNL Brands] are archived for 30 days and can be recovered within that period.

## [!DNL Brands] guidelines

Guidelines give GenStudio for Performance Marketing a clear picture of your brand-specific approach, tone, visual feeling, and more.

>[!NOTE]
>
>If you upload brand guidelines written in a non-English language—or manually create a brand using a non-English language—GenStudio for Performance Marketing will display those guidelines in that same language.

Some channel guidelines, abstracted from [platform guidelines and ADA accessibility standards](/help/user-guide/guidelines/overview.md#compliance), are pre-populated as default values.

![Brand guidelines](/help/assets/brands.png){width="600" zoomable="yes"}

The following guidelines sections detail each guidelines category, examples guidelines, and potential results. The guideline examples are sample inputs that shape the results output (result examples below)—use them to inform your own brand guidelines.

### Brand voice guidelines

The following table shows each category of brand voice guidelines and guideline examples.

| Guideline category | Description | Best practices |
| ------------------| :---------- | :---------- |
| [!UICONTROL Tone of voice]       | Brand's personality as expressed through written communication | Use descriptive words to clearly convey brand's emotion and tone. <br>_Examples_: "genuine", "playful"<br><br>Be concise (3-6 guidelines) and focus on key brand voice attributes.<br><br>Select words/phrases that are consistent across communication channels to build coherent brand identity. |
| [!UICONTROL Brand values]        | Principles that drive brand culture, customer experience, and business strategies | Use descriptive words to convey brand's mission, vision, and audience needs. <br>_Examples_: "authenticity", "inspiring", "progressive"<br><br>Be concise (3-6 guidelines) and focus on core brand values/themes. |
| [!UICONTROL Editorial guidelines]   | Communication guidelines defining best practices for crafting brand messaging | Use positive phrasing (5-10 guidelines) to establish a strong foundation.<br>_Examples_: "Use simple, accessible language" instead of "Avoid using jargon"<br><br>Provide clear and actionable guidance. <br>_Examples_: "Keep sentences under 20 words" instead of "Be concise"<br><br>Reflect your brand's style, such as using specific syntax preferences. <br>_Examples_: "Use an em dash instead of a colon", "Use sentence case"<br><br>Craft precise guidelines that maintain consistency across outputs. |
| [!UICONTROL Editorial restrictions]  | Communication guidelines defining what to avoid in brand messaging | Use direct negative phrasing (5-10 guidelines) to specify what should be avoided. <br>_Example_: "Avoid using..."<br><br>Provide clear and actionable guidance. <br>_Example_: "Avoid rhetorical questions" |

### Image guidelines

The following table shows each category of image guidelines and associated values. You must [establish a category](add-guidelines.md#add-brands), such as 'General art guidelines' or 'Product photography,' in order to apply the image guidelines.

| Guideline category | Description | Values |
| ------------------| :---------- | :---------- |
| [!UICONTROL Description]       | General information for the specific category of image guideline added, such as "Product photography" or "General art guidelines" | Extracted from guidelines documents and manually configurable <br><br>_Example for General art guideline_: "Guidelines that apply to images that are not photographs, such as illustrations, and 3D renders" |
| [!UICONTROL Content type]       | Available content types for an image | _Art_ or _Photo_ |
| Composition      | Details regarding the placement of objects, camera, and photography techniques | Extracted from guidelines documents and manually configurable |
| [!UICONTROL Environment]    | Details regarding the environment, such as background elements in the image | _Example_: "Prefer to use a sunny environment" |
| [!UICONTROL Color]    | Details regarding color family, color temperature, primary/secondary/tertiary colors, hue, saturation, contrast | Extracted from guidelines documents and manually configurable<br><br>_Examples_: "Ensure product is the main focus with minimal distractions", "Vibrant colors" |
| [!UICONTROL Lighting]    |    General or specific details regarding the lighting | Extracted from guidelines documents and manually configurable<br><br>_Example_: "Place a ring light in front of the person" |
| [!UICONTROL Mood]    | Describes the feeling of an image | Extracted from guidelines documents and manually configurable<br><br>_Example_: "Images must always depict positive, joyous themes"|
| [!UICONTROL Restrictions]    | Things to avoid regardless of other guidelines | Extracted from guidelines documents and manually configurable<br><br>_Example_: "Avoid shooting photos in cloudy environment", "Avoid negative themes", "Colors cannot be washed out" |

### Channel guidelines

Each channel has certain inherent guidelines that influence channel asset composition.

The following table shows each channel section, channels for which it is available, description of the section, guideline examples, and example results.

| Sections | Channels | Description | Best practices |
| ------------------| --------- | --------- | -------- |
| General   | email, Meta, Banner and display ads | A second subject line or email preview text | Define overall tone/emotion to be consistent throughout email (2-5 guidelines).<br>_Examples_: "Maintain a friendly and approachable tone", "Avoid overly formal language"<br><br> |
| Subject    | email | A compelling and interesting title to summarize the content of an email | Provide specific guidance (2-5 guidelines) on tone, length, etc. Add previously successful subject lines in _Examples_ section for better quality output.<br>_Example_: "Align subject with email body" |
| Preheader        | email | A second subject line or email preview text |  Provide specific guidance (2-5 guidelines) on tone, ideal length, etc. Add previously successful preheaders in the _Examples_ section for better quality output.<br>_Example_: "Limit to 60-80 characters" |
| Headline          | email, Meta, Banner and display ads, LinkedIn | A title or phrase to grab the reader's attention | Provide specific guidance (2-5 guidelines) on tone, ideal length, etc. Add previously successful headlines in _Examples_ section for better quality output.<br>_Examples_: "Use punchy statements to grab attention" |
| Sub-headline          | email, Banner and display ads | A second or third title or phrase to grab reader's attention | Provide specific guidance (2-5 guidelines) that define tone, ideal length, etc. Add previously successful sub-headlines in _Examples_ section for better quality output.<br>_Examples_: "Use punchy statements to grab attention" |
| Description          | LinkedIn | Descriptive phrases that define overall tone-emotion | Provide specific guidance (2-5 guidelines) on tone, ideal length, etc. Add previously successful descriptions in _Examples_ section for better quality output.<br>_Examples_: "Maintain a friendly and approachable tone" |
| Body              | email, Meta, Banner and display ads, LinkedIn | Marketing content that includes message, links, and images | Provide specific guidance (2-5 guidelines) on tone, ideal length, etc. Add previously successful copy to _Examples_ section for better quality output.<br>_Examples_: "Limit to 80-100 characters", "Avoid excessive acronyms" |
| On-image text    | Meta, LinkedIn | Specific guidance on the tone, ideal length, etc. fo text that appears on top of images | Provide specific guidance (1-2 sentences) on tone, ideal length, etc. Add previously successful text to _Examples_ section for better quality output.<br>_Examples_: "Focus on the moment"|
| Call-to-action (CTA)        | email, Meta, Banner and display ads | (Call to Action) An instruction given to the reader that inspires a response. Usually one or two words, such as `Get started` | Provide specific guidance (2-5 guidelines) on tone, ideal length, etc. Add previously successful CTAs to _Examples_ section for better quality output.<br>_Examples_: "Do not use end punctuation"|

#### Default channel guidelines

The following default channel guidelines for [!DNL Brands] are applied per channel, based on industry best practices and individual platform specifications.

>[!BEGINTABS]

>[!TAB Meta]

| Section       | Default guideline                |
|---------------|-------------------------------|
| Headline      | Limit to 40 characters or less|
| Body          | Limit to 125 characters or less|
| On-image text | Limit to 5-6 words            |

>[!TAB LinkedIn]

| Section            | Default guideline                                |
|--------------------|-----------------------------------------------|
| Headline           | Limit to 70 characters or less to avoid truncation|
| Headline           | Limit to 200 characters              |
| Description        | Limit to 100 characters to avoid truncation|
| Description        | Limit to 300 characters           |
| Introductory text  | Limit to 150 characters to avoid truncation|
| Introductory text  | Limit to 600 characters      |
| Introductory text  | Maximum of four emojis                        |
| Ad name            | Limit to 255 characters or less               |

>[!ENDTABS]

<!-- Not in M2.1 // ### Image guidelines

Images have certain inherent guidelines that influence image composition.

The following table shows each category of image guideline, description of the category, and example guideline entries.

You can create your own categories, like Photos, Product, or Illustration imagery, and provide detailed guidelines for each category.

| Guideline category    | Description | Guideline examples |
| ------------------ | :---------- | -------- |
|Composition    | Define objects, focal point, position, aspect ratio, framing, and depth-of-field | `Ensure images are visually punchy, Avoid dull colors/shading` |
| Background     | Set the stage by describing layouts, location, places | `Should be friendly and action-oriented` |
| Restrictions   | List requirements or avoidances | `Avoid political imagery or topics, Avoid black and gray imagery, Avoid images displaying extreme strife or stress` |
| Color and tone | Specify color or color theme, palette, color interpretation and accessibility | `Use bright and bold color palette, Ensure high contrast` |
| Lighting   | Describe how highlights and shadows affect different objects| `Use natural light, Avoid using shadows` |

![Image guidelines in GenStudio for Performance Marketing](/help/assets/image-guidelines.png){width="650" zoomable="yes"}

### Logos

Add logos to your brand in the **[!UICONTROL Logos]** tab.

![Logo guidelines in GenStudio for Performance Marketing](/help/assets/logos.png){width="650" zoomable="yes"} -->

### Logos

[!DNL Brand] logos serve as visual symbols representing a company's identity, values, and products. You can upload one or multiple logos (not to exceed 1GB per file) for a [!DNL Brand] in JPG, JPEG, SVG, or PNG formats. Logos can be added during [!DNL Brand] creation or from the individual _[!DNL Brands] view_.

Each uploaded logo includes the following details within the logo tile:

- File type
- File size
- Resolution

From the actions menu (three dots) for a color, you can **[!UICONTROL Download]**, **[!UICONTROL Rename]**, or **[!UICONTROL Delete]** a color.

### Colors

Manage colors within individual [!DNL Brands] to ensure consistent and accessible text styling. Choose or define colors by a hex code or RGB code, and only solid colors are supported (opacity is not supported). You can add unlimited colors, view them in a gallery format, and rename them from hex or RGB code to a human-readable name.

![Brand colors](/help/assets/colors.png){width="600" zoomable="yes"}

From the actions menu (three dots) for a color, you can **[!UICONTROL Edit]**, **[!UICONTROL Rename]**, or **[!UICONTROL Delete]** a color.

## Brand validation

In GenStudio for Performance Marketing, brand validation plays a crucial role, in conjunction with the generative AI functionality of [!DNL Brands], [!DNL Products], and [!DNL Personas]. It ensures that all your content remains consistent with your brand identity and accessibility concerns.

See [Brand validation](/help/user-guide/guidelines/brand-validation.md).
