help/user-guide/configure-brand-permissions.md, before:

---
title: Assign [!DNL Brand] permissions
description: Learn about assigning entitlements for GenStudio for Performance Marketing [!DNL Brand] creators and editors.
level: Intermediate
feature: Brand Personalization, Generative AI
exl-id: fc33ecd3-4403-4045-87af-012a0377226c
---
# Assign [!DNL Brand] permissions

By default, GenStudio system managers can create and edit [!DNL Brands]. The content editor and collaborator roles have editing and creation permissions, but may not require any system management entitlements. To grant content editors and collaborators these [!DNL Brand]-related entitlements, an Adobe system administrator must perform some additional configuration tasks in the Adobe Admin Console. See [Adobe Admin Console](https://helpx.adobe.com/enterprise/using/admin-console.html#Overview) in _Enterprise and Teams administration guide_.

Adding users and user groups are basic tasks common to all Adobe products with entitlements that are managed through the Admin Console. See [Adobe Admin Console users](https://helpx.adobe.com/enterprise/using/users.html) in _Enterprise and Teams administration guide_ for an overview of user management and procedures for adding users and user groups.

## Step 1: Create a user group

**To create a user group**:

1. Log in to the Admin Console and navigate to **[!UICONTROL Users]** > **[!UICONTROL Users Groups]**.

1. Click **[!UICONTROL New User Group]**. The _Create a new user group_ popup opens.

1. Add an informative user group name to the **[!UICONTROL User group name]** field to identify the new group's purpose. For example, "Brand managers".

1. Optionally, add a description of the group and its purpose.

1. Click **[!UICONTROL Save]**. The Admin Console opens the _New group_ popup, with the name of the newly created group.

See [Manage user groups](https://helpx.adobe.com/enterprise/using/user-groups.html) in _Enterprise and Teams administration guide_.

## Step 2: Assign a GenStudio system manager profile to the user group

Once you have created a new user group and added users, you can assign the **Adobe GenStudio system manager** profile to this group. The entitlement associated to the assigned profile gives all users in this group GenStudio [!DNL Brands] permissions (create, update, and delete brands).

**To assign a profile to the user group**:

1. Navigate to the newly created user group and click the _Assigned product profiles_ tab.

1. From the _Assigned product profiles_ tab, click **[!UICONTROL Assign profile]**. The _Assign products and profiles_ popup opens.

1. Select `Adobe GenStudio` from the _Select products_ list.

1. Click **[!UICONTROL Apply]**. The _Select product profiles_ popup opens, displaying the product profiles associated with Adobe GenStudio.

1. Select `Adobe GenStudio system manager`.
 
1. Click **[!UICONTROL Apply]**. The _Assign products and profiles_ popup opens, displaying the product profile for the newly created user group.

1. Click **[!UICONTROL Save]**.

See [Assign Product Profiles to User Groups](https://helpx.adobe.com/enterprise/using/user-groups.html) in _Enterprise and Teams administration guide_.

## Step 3: Add users to the user group

To assign users the permission to create, edit, and publish [!DNL Brands], add them to the newly created user group.

>[!NOTE]
>
>You must add at least one user to this user group before adding the group to your project.

**To add users to the user group**:

1. From the _Admin Console_, navigate to **[!UICONTROL Users]** > **[!UICONTROL User Groups]**.

1. Select the name of the user group that you created earlier. The _Add users to this user group_ popup opens.

1. Add a new or existing user by either username or email address. When you enter a name or email address for an existing user, this field is automatically populated with matching names for known users that belong to this IMS org. Learn about managing user groups in [Manage user groups](https://helpx.adobe.com/enterprise/using/user-groups.html) in _Enterprise and Teams administration guide_.

Users are granted the [!DNL Brand] create, edit, and publish permissions of Adobe GenStudio system managers when added to the group. Users also receive an automated email invitation to edit the Adobe GenStudio for Performance Marketing [!DNL Brands] project.

## Step 4: Create a [!DNL Brands] project

A _project_ provides a storage location where select users can save assets—in this case, [!DNL Brands] assets.

**To create a [!DNL Brands] project from the _Storage_ tab**:

1. Navigate to the _Storage_ tab in the Admin Console.

1. Click **[!UICONTROL Projects]** in the side navigation. The _Projects_ tab opens.

1. Click **[!UICONTROL Create Project]**. The _New Project_ popup opens.

1. Enter `Adobe GenStudio Brands` in the project name field. Enter this project name exactly as displayed here. Do not include extra spaces or change the letter case.

1. Click **[!UICONTROL Create]**. The _Invite to project_ popup opens.

See [Manage projects](https://helpx.adobe.com/enterprise/using/projects-in-business-storage.html) in the _Enterprise and Teams administration guide_.

## Step 5: Invite user group to project

You are now ready to add the user group you just created to the `Adobe GenStudio [!DNL Brands]` project.

**To invite the user group to the newly created project**:

1. From the _Invite to project_ popup, add the user group you just created to this project.

1. Choose the **Can edit** permissions option.

1. Click **[!UICONTROL Invite]**.

Commit message:

Added Video tutorials to Assign Brand Permissions

help/user-guide/configure-brand-permissions.md, after:

---
title: Assign [!DNL Brand] Permissions
description: Learn about assigning entitlements for GenStudio for Performance Marketing [!DNL Brand] creators and editors.
level: Intermediate
feature: Brand Personalization, Generative AI
exl-id: fc33ecd3-4403-4045-87af-012a0377226c
---
# Assign [!DNL Brand] permissions

By default, GenStudio system managers can create and edit [!DNL Brands]. The content editor and collaborator roles have editing and creation permissions, but may not require any system management entitlements. 

To grant content editors and collaborators these [!DNL Brand]-related entitlements, an Adobe system administrator must perform some additional configuration tasks in the Adobe Admin Console. See [Adobe Admin Console](https://helpx.adobe.com/enterprise/using/admin-console.html#Overview) in _Enterprise and Teams administration guide_.

Adding users and user groups are basic tasks common to all Adobe products with entitlements that are managed through the Admin Console. See [Adobe Admin Console users](https://helpx.adobe.com/enterprise/using/users.html) in _Enterprise and Teams administration guide_ for an overview of user management and procedures for adding users and user groups.

Watch this video walkthrough or follow the steps below.

>[!VIDEO](https://video.tv.adobe.com/v/3470499/?learn=on&enablevpops)

## Step 1: Create a user group

**To create a user group**:

1. Log in to the Admin Console and navigate to **[!UICONTROL Users]** > **[!UICONTROL Users Groups]**.

1. Click **[!UICONTROL New User Group]**. The _Create a new user group_ popup opens.

1. Add an informative user group name to the **[!UICONTROL User group name]** field to identify the new group's purpose. For example, "Brand managers".

1. Optionally, add a description of the group and its purpose.

1. Click **[!UICONTROL Save]**. The Admin Console opens the _New group_ popup, with the name of the newly created group.

See [Manage user groups](https://helpx.adobe.com/enterprise/using/user-groups.html) in _Enterprise and Teams administration guide_.

## Step 2: Assign a GenStudio system manager profile to the user group

Once you have created a new user group and added users, you can assign the **Adobe GenStudio system manager** profile to this group. The entitlement associated to the assigned profile gives all users in this group GenStudio [!DNL Brands] permissions (create, update, and delete brands).

**To assign a profile to the user group**:

1. Navigate to the newly created user group and click the _Assigned product profiles_ tab.

1. From the _Assigned product profiles_ tab, click **[!UICONTROL Assign profile]**. The _Assign products and profiles_ popup opens.

1. Select `Adobe GenStudio` from the _Select products_ list.

1. Click **[!UICONTROL Apply]**. The _Select product profiles_ popup opens, displaying the product profiles associated with Adobe GenStudio.

1. Select `Adobe GenStudio system manager`.
 
1. Click **[!UICONTROL Apply]**. The _Assign products and profiles_ popup opens, displaying the product profile for the newly created user group.

1. Click **[!UICONTROL Save]**.

See [Assign Product Profiles to User Groups](https://helpx.adobe.com/enterprise/using/user-groups.html) in _Enterprise and Teams administration guide_.

## Step 3: Add users to the user group

To assign users the permission to create, edit, and publish [!DNL Brands], add them to the newly created user group.

>[!NOTE]
>
>You must add at least one user to this user group before adding the group to your project.

**To add users to the user group**:

1. From the _Admin Console_, navigate to **[!UICONTROL Users]** > **[!UICONTROL User Groups]**.

1. Select the name of the user group that you created earlier. The _Add users to this user group_ popup opens.

1. Add a new or existing user by either username or email address. When you enter a name or email address for an existing user, this field is automatically populated with matching names for known users that belong to this IMS org. Learn about managing user groups in [Manage user groups](https://helpx.adobe.com/enterprise/using/user-groups.html) in _Enterprise and Teams administration guide_.

Users are granted the [!DNL Brand] create, edit, and publish permissions of Adobe GenStudio system managers when added to the group. Users also receive an automated email invitation to edit the Adobe GenStudio for Performance Marketing [!DNL Brands] project.

## Step 4: Create a [!DNL Brands] project

A _project_ provides a storage location where select users can save assets—in this case, [!DNL Brands] assets.

**To create a [!DNL Brands] project from the _Storage_ tab**:

1. Navigate to the _Storage_ tab in the Admin Console.

1. Click **[!UICONTROL Projects]** in the side navigation. The _Projects_ tab opens.

1. Click **[!UICONTROL Create Project]**. The _New Project_ popup opens.

1. Enter `Adobe GenStudio Brands` in the project name field. Enter this project name exactly as displayed here. Do not include extra spaces or change the letter case.

1. Click **[!UICONTROL Create]**. The _Invite to project_ popup opens.

See [Manage projects](https://helpx.adobe.com/enterprise/using/projects-in-business-storage.html) in the _Enterprise and Teams administration guide_.

## Step 5: Invite user group to project

You are now ready to add the user group you just created to the `Adobe GenStudio [!DNL Brands]` project.

**To invite the user group to the newly created project**:

1. From the _Invite to project_ popup, add the user group you just created to this project.

1. Choose the **Can edit** permissions option.

1. Click **[!UICONTROL Invite]**.
