help/user-guide/get-started.md, before:

---
title: Get started with Adobe GenStudio for Performance Marketing
description: Learn how to get started with GenStudio for Performance Marketing to generate brand-aligned marketing content and accelerate campaign management.
level: Beginner
role: User
feature: Media Templates, Guidelines, Generative AI
exl-id: bcb03198-bbcb-45ae-af01-25c1e834b563
---
# Get started with Adobe GenStudio for Performance Marketing

Adobe GenStudio for Performance Marketing offers a comprehensive suite of tools designed to streamline content creation, management, and analysis. It infuses the content creation lifecycle with generative AI capabilities that transform how marketing content is created, reviewed, shared, and analyzed.

## Start creating, sharing, and reviewing content

If you are new to generative AI-based tools or are simply curious about GenStudio for Performance Marketing's core principles, see [Concepts](/help/user-guide/concepts.md) and [Write effective prompts](/help/user-guide/effective-prompts.md). You can check out [Adobe GenStudio Academy](https://learningmanager.adobe.com/genstudioacademy), Adobe's online learning platform about using generative AI technologies in the creative process.

## Personalize GenStudio for Performance Marketing

GenStudio for Performance Marketing uses information about your brand and markets to enhance brand-compliant content creation. The generative AI leverages descriptions of customer [personas](/help/user-guide/guidelines/personas.md), [products](/help/user-guide/guidelines/products.md), and [brand guidelines](/help/user-guide/guidelines/overview.md) to guide content generation in alignment with your organization's requirements.

System managers set up Adobe GenStudio for Performance Marketing by entering or uploading organization-specific information. This preparation ensures that content editors and collaborators can effectively use the generative AI features to create and review campaign assets. Once an Adobe system administrator provisions your organization's product instance and assigns a GenStudio system manager permissions, the GenStudio system manager can prepare the product's underlying generative AI framework using guidelines.

### Step 1: Add guidelines

Setting up the key building blocks of your organization's brand identity is an essential prerequisite for the work of content editors and collaborators. Brand components encompass intangible aspects such as tone of voice but also more strictly defined features such as logos and color palettes. Understanding of your organization's brands, personas, and products. [Guidelines](/help/user-guide/guidelines/overview.md) capture brand, persona, and product characteristics to inform the creation of content that is closely tailored to your organization's standards and values. 

Learn about how [GenStudio for Performance Marketing defines brand components](/help/user-guide/guidelines/brands.md)

Create your brand [guidelines](/help/user-guide/guidelines/overview.md) to capture brand characteristics. GenStudio for Performance Marketing's underlying generative AI capabilities use these guidelines to establish guardrails that guide the content generation.You can either upload [[!DNL Brands] guidelines](/help/user-guide/guidelines/brands.md) documents or manually enter brand information. 


[[!DNL Personas] guidelines](/help/user-guide/guidelines/personas.md) and [[!DNL Products] guidelines](/help/user-guide/guidelines/products.md) are important, too.


#### Prepare your guideline documents

Comprehensive and focused [[!DNL Brands]](/help/user-guide/guidelines/brands.md), [[!DNL Products]](/help/user-guide/guidelines/products.md), and [[!DNL Personas]](/help/user-guide/guidelines/personas.md) guidelines define core aspects of your organization's marketing campaigns. GenStudio for Performance Marketing extracts information from these guidelines to begin building your brand. You can upload guideline documents or consult them as you manually enter information into GenStudio for Performance Marketing. See [Add guidelines](/help/user-guide/guidelines/overview.md) for guidance on uploading or entering this information.

#### Revise guidelines

A GenStudio system manager can prepare the product's underlying generative AI framework by manually entering or uploading your organization's specific brand requirements. Although setting up an organization's brand guidelines is a one-time action, you may revise and enhance these guidelines based on your organization's volatility, growth, and changing market circumstances.

### Step 2: Set up an Adobe Admin Console project for GenStudio [!DNL Brands]

System administrators must complete additional set-up tasks before collaborators can edit or create [!DNL Brands]. Adobe system administrators carry out these tasks in the Adobe Admin Console:

* Create a new user group that includes all users who need to edit and create [!DNL Brands] entitlements.

* Create a new project in the Adobe Admin Console.

See [Assign Brand permissions](configure-brand-permissions.md).

### Step 3: Upload templates

Templates accelerate content creation. A template contains approved features, such as headers and footers, and is optimized for specific channels. System managers typically upload and manage templates for their organization. Content editors use templates to jump-start the content creation process within the established boundaries of the organizational brand.

See [Work with templates](/help/user-guide/content/use-templates.md).

### Step 4: Upload approved assets

Approved assets in [!DNL Content] are available to all GenStudio for Performance Marketing editors. You can populate [!DNL Content] with assets for content editors to use in creating new experiences or assets.

See [Upload approved assets](/help/user-guide/content/manage-assets.md).

### Step 5: Connect to a paid media account

Configure a connection between GenStudio for Performance Marketing and your paid media accounts to receive data from active marketing campaigns, assets, and experiences. Use [!DNL Insights] to analyze channel-derived data. See [Connect paid media account](/help/user-guide/connectors/connect-channel.md).

Commit message:

simplified section on preparing guideline docs

help/user-guide/get-started.md, after:

---
title: Get started with Adobe GenStudio for Performance Marketing
description: Learn how to get started with GenStudio for Performance Marketing to generate brand-aligned marketing content and accelerate campaign management.
level: Beginner
role: User
feature: Media Templates, Guidelines, Generative AI
exl-id: bcb03198-bbcb-45ae-af01-25c1e834b563
---
# Get started with Adobe GenStudio for Performance Marketing

Adobe GenStudio for Performance Marketing offers a comprehensive suite of tools designed to streamline content creation, management, and analysis. It infuses the content creation lifecycle with generative AI capabilities that transform how marketing content is created, reviewed, shared, and analyzed.

## Start creating, sharing, and reviewing content

If you are new to generative AI-based tools or are simply curious about GenStudio for Performance Marketing's core principles, see [Concepts](/help/user-guide/concepts.md) and [Write effective prompts](/help/user-guide/effective-prompts.md). You can check out [Adobe GenStudio Academy](https://learningmanager.adobe.com/genstudioacademy), Adobe's online learning platform about using generative AI technologies in the creative process.

## Personalize GenStudio for Performance Marketing

GenStudio for Performance Marketing uses information about your brand and markets to enhance brand-compliant content creation. The generative AI leverages descriptions of customer [personas](/help/user-guide/guidelines/personas.md), [products](/help/user-guide/guidelines/products.md), and [brand guidelines](/help/user-guide/guidelines/overview.md) to guide content generation in alignment with your organization's requirements.

System managers set up Adobe GenStudio for Performance Marketing by entering or uploading organization-specific information. This preparation ensures that content editors and collaborators can effectively use the generative AI features to create and review campaign assets. Once an Adobe system administrator provisions your organization's product instance and assigns a GenStudio system manager permissions, the GenStudio system manager can prepare the product's underlying generative AI framework using guidelines.

### Step 1: Add guidelines

Brand [guidelines](/help/user-guide/guidelines/overview.md) capture brand characteristics. GenStudio for Performance Marketing's underlying generative AI capabilities use these guidelines to establish guardrails that guide content generation. You can either upload [[!DNL Brands] guideline](/help/user-guide/guidelines/brands.md) documents or manually enter brand information. 

Content editors and collaborators cannot begin their work until the foundational elements of your organization's [brand identity](/help/user-guide/guidelines/brands.md) are established. These brand components include both:

* Intangible elements, such as tone of voice
* Tangible assets, like logos, color palettes, and typography.

Before creating guidelines, learn about how GenStudio for Performance Marketing defines [brand components](/help/user-guide/guidelines/brands.md)

#### Prepare your guideline documents

Comprehensive and focused [[!DNL Brands]](/help/user-guide/guidelines/brands.md), [[!DNL Products]](/help/user-guide/guidelines/products.md), and [[!DNL Personas]](/help/user-guide/guidelines/personas.md) guidelines define core aspects of your organization's marketing campaigns. GenStudio for Performance Marketing extracts information from these guidelines to begin building your brand. You can upload guideline documents or consult them as you manually enter information into GenStudio for Performance Marketing. See [Add guidelines](/help/user-guide/guidelines/overview.md) for guidance on uploading or entering this information.

#### Revise guidelines

A GenStudio system manager can prepare the product's underlying generative AI framework by manually entering or uploading your organization's specific brand requirements. Although setting up an organization's brand guidelines is a one-time action, you may revise and enhance these guidelines based on your organization's volatility, growth, and changing market circumstances.

### Step 2: Set up an Adobe Admin Console project for GenStudio [!DNL Brands]

System administrators must complete additional set-up tasks before collaborators can edit or create [!DNL Brands]. Adobe system administrators carry out these tasks in the Adobe Admin Console:

* Create a new user group that includes all users who need to edit and create [!DNL Brands] entitlements.

* Create a new project in the Adobe Admin Console.

See [Assign Brand permissions](configure-brand-permissions.md).

### Step 3: Upload templates

Templates accelerate content creation. A template contains approved features, such as headers and footers, and is optimized for specific channels. System managers typically upload and manage templates for their organization. Content editors use templates to jump-start the content creation process within the established boundaries of the organizational brand.

See [Work with templates](/help/user-guide/content/use-templates.md).

### Step 4: Upload approved assets

Approved assets in [!DNL Content] are available to all GenStudio for Performance Marketing editors. You can populate [!DNL Content] with assets for content editors to use in creating new experiences or assets.

See [Upload approved assets](/help/user-guide/content/manage-assets.md).

### Step 5: Connect to a paid media account

Configure a connection between GenStudio for Performance Marketing and your paid media accounts to receive data from active marketing campaigns, assets, and experiences. Use [!DNL Insights] to analyze channel-derived data. See [Connect paid media account](/help/user-guide/connectors/connect-channel.md).
