help/user-guide/product-provisioning.md, before:

---
title: Provision Adobe GenStudio for Performance Marketing
description: Learn about provisioning the GenStudio for Performance Marketing product.
level: Beginner
feature: Prompt, Brands Service, Personas Service, Products Service, Generative AI, Guidelines
exl-id: 7a9f8de1-79e7-455c-ae0f-e7646febc483
---
# Provision Adobe GenStudio for Performance Marketing

An Adobe system administrator performs initial provisioning tasks in the [Adobe Admin Console](https://helpx.adobe.com/enterprise/using/admin-console.html#Overview). From the Admin Console, an Adobe system administrator can access the GenStudio product profile and assign available product licenses to users.

>[!NOTE]
>
>Only Adobe system administrators can implement enablement tasks that require Adobe Admin Console access.

## Step 1: Access the product profile in Adobe Admin Console

 Within the Admin Console, the product profile defines rules and user profiles that are unique to brand and campaign creation and management within GenStudio for Performance Marketing.

**To access the GenStudio product profile**

1. Click the **Get started** link in your welcome email to navigate to the [Adobe Admin Console](https://helpx.adobe.com/enterprise/using/admin-console.html#Overview).

1. Log in to the Admin Console using your Adobe ID.

   Upon successful login, you see the _Overview_ tab of the Adobe Admin Console.

1. Navigate to the _Products_ tab. This tab displays all the Adobe products that your organization has purchased.

1. Select **[!UICONTROL GenStudio]** from the list of products. The Console displays the GenStudio product profile, which displays key information about the product licenses your organization has purchased. It also provides options to manage these licenses.

You are now ready to assign licenses to (provision) users to GenStudio for Performance Marketing. If you logged into the wrong organization, switch to the correct organization before trying to assign entitlements to users. To change your organization, click the organization name from the top right corner and choose the **GenStudio** organization.

## Step 2: Provision users

Provisioning users in the Admin Console is the process of assigning product licenses to users. These users must belong to the IMS org that is specified in the product profile. You can provision users to your GenStudio for Performance Marketing organization in the same way you provision users to other Adobe products. You can add users manually or import users in bulk.

>[!TIP]
>
>Assign yourself GenStudio system manager entitlements to perform system management tasks in GenStudio for Performance Marketing.

**Prerequisites**:

Prepare for provisioning by first identifying basic information:

* First and last name
* Corporate email address
* Type of entitlements to assign users

See [User roles and permissions](user-roles.md) for guidance on assigning GenStudio for Performance Marketing user roles.

You can add users individually or import account information for multiple users: 

* [Manage user individually](https://helpx.adobe.com/enterprise/using/manage-users-individually.html#add-users)

* [Manage multiple users/bulk CSV upload](https://helpx.adobe.com/enterprise/using/bulk-upload-users.html)

Once you onboard users to your organization's GenStudio for Performance Marketing, a Genstudio system manager can [set up your organization's brand and media guidelines](get-started.md).

Commit message:

added warning about editing product profiles

help/user-guide/product-provisioning.md, after:

---
title: Provision Adobe GenStudio for Performance Marketing
description: Learn about provisioning the GenStudio for Performance Marketing product.
level: Beginner
feature: Prompt, Brands Service, Personas Service, Products Service, Generative AI, Guidelines
exl-id: 7a9f8de1-79e7-455c-ae0f-e7646febc483
---
# Provision Adobe GenStudio for Performance Marketing

An Adobe system administrator performs initial provisioning tasks in the [Adobe Admin Console](https://helpx.adobe.com/enterprise/using/admin-console.html#Overview). From the Admin Console, an Adobe system administrator can access the GenStudio product profile and assign available product licenses to users.

>[!NOTE]
>
>Only Adobe system administrators can implement enablement tasks that require Adobe Admin Console access.

>[!IMPORTANT]
>
>Do not edit or delete existing product profiles or add a new one. Altering the default product profiles can seriously disrupt your GenStudio for Performance Marketing deployment.

## Step 1: Access the product profile in Adobe Admin Console

 Within the Admin Console, the product profile defines rules and user profiles that are unique to brand and campaign creation and management within GenStudio for Performance Marketing.

**To access the GenStudio product profile**

1. Click the **Get started** link in your welcome email to navigate to the [Adobe Admin Console](https://helpx.adobe.com/enterprise/using/admin-console.html#Overview).

1. Log in to the Admin Console using your Adobe ID.

   Upon successful login, you see the _Overview_ tab of the Adobe Admin Console.

1. Navigate to the _Products_ tab. This tab displays all the Adobe products that your organization has purchased.

1. Select **[!UICONTROL GenStudio]** from the list of products. The Console displays the GenStudio product profile, which displays key information about the product licenses your organization has purchased. It also provides options to manage these licenses.

You are now ready to assign licenses to (provision) users to GenStudio for Performance Marketing. If you logged into the wrong organization, switch to the correct organization before trying to assign entitlements to users. To change your organization, click the organization name from the top right corner and choose the **GenStudio** organization.

## Step 2: Provision users

Provisioning users in the Admin Console is the process of assigning product licenses to users. These users must belong to the IMS org that is specified in the product profile. You can provision users to your GenStudio for Performance Marketing organization in the same way you provision users to other Adobe products. You can add users manually or import users in bulk.

>[!TIP]
>
>Assign yourself GenStudio system manager entitlements to perform system management tasks in GenStudio for Performance Marketing.

**Prerequisites**:

Prepare for provisioning by first identifying basic information:

* First and last name
* Corporate email address
* Type of entitlements to assign users

See [User roles and permissions](user-roles.md) for guidance on assigning GenStudio for Performance Marketing user roles.

You can add users individually or import account information for multiple users: 

* [Manage user individually](https://helpx.adobe.com/enterprise/using/manage-users-individually.html#add-users)

* [Manage multiple users/bulk CSV upload](https://helpx.adobe.com/enterprise/using/bulk-upload-users.html)

Once you onboard users to your organization's GenStudio for Performance Marketing, a Genstudio system manager can [set up your organization's brand and media guidelines](get-started.md).
