---
title: Figma Plugin for Adobe GenStudio for Performance Marketing
description: Learn how to configure and use the Figma plugin for GenStudio for Performance Marketing.
feature: Generative AI
role: User
exl-id:
---
# Figma plugin for GenStudio for Performance Marketing

The GenStudio for Performance Marketing Figma plugin adds a new panel to the Figma application that allows users to perform GenStudio for Performance Marketing actions, like generating on-brand content.

This page describes how to configure and use the plugin.
Features of this plugin include:

* Map Figma text elements to GenStudio for Performance Marketing fields, such as `headline`, `body`, `on_image_text`, etc
* Generate new on-brand Meta ad or Display ad [!DNL Experiences] based on a brand, persona, product, and text prompt
* Create [!DNL Experiences] directly in the Figma document by replacing the text in mapped Figma elements with values generated by GenStudio for Performance Marketing
* Rephrase, shorten, lengthen, or translate existing content based on a prompt
* Translate generated [!DNL Experiences] into multiple languages
* Export generated [!DNL Experiences] to a local source as flattened images
* Export generated [!DNL Experiences] to GenStudio for Performance Marketing

## Usage

1. Login into [Figma](https://www.figma.com).
1. Ensure you have selected the "Adobe Enterprise" team.
Click "All workspaces" in the navigation pane.
Choose the "Plugins" tab.
Click the card for "GenStudio"
Click "Open in...", then either select one of your documents, or the "Playground file"
At this point you can choose to either use the Figma desktop application, or continue in a browser.
Regardless of the chosen platform, open the plugin.
On desktop, you can choose the "Plugins" > "From Adobe Enterprise" > "GenStudio" menu option.
On either platform, you can click this icon in the floating doc at the bottom of the application: , then choose the "Plugins & widgets" tab, and click "GenStudio"
On web, you can find the plugin in the navigation pane:

Once the plugin is open, sign in with your Adobe ID, being sure to select a profile that has access to GenStudio.
Refer to the demo video for additional instructions on how to use the plugin.