help/user-guide/integrations/overview.md, before:

---
title: Adobe GenStudio for Performance Marketing Integrations
description: Learn about the integrations available for Adobe GenStudio for Performance Marketing.
feature: Generative AI
role: User
---
# Adobe GenStudio for Performance Marketing Integrations

GenStudio for Performance Marketing offers integrations with other powerful design products to provide a seamless experience to marketers who rely on those products. Here you'll find information about the integrations that are available and how to use them.

Explore the plugins that GenStudio for Performance Marketing offers, with other Adobe products and beyond, to streamline your design workflows.

## Figma plugin

The GenStudio for Performance Marketing Figma plugin adds a new panel to the Figma application that allows users to perform GenStudio for Performance Marketing actions, like generating on-brand content.

Learn more about the Figma plugin in the [Figma plugin](figma-plugin.md) page.

## Photoshop plugin

The GenStudio for Performance Marketing Photoshop plugin adds a new panel to Adobe Photoshop that allows users to perform GenStudio for Performance Marketing actions, like generating on-brand content.

Learn more about the Photoshop plugin in the [Photoshop plugin](photoshop-plugin.md) page.

Commit message:

Update overview.md with note on Adobe Express templates
Added a note about using Adobe Express templates for ad creation.

help/user-guide/integrations/overview.md, after:

---
title: Adobe GenStudio for Performance Marketing Integrations
description: Learn about the integrations available for Adobe GenStudio for Performance Marketing.
feature: Generative AI
role: User
---
# Adobe GenStudio for Performance Marketing Integrations

GenStudio for Performance Marketing offers integrations with other powerful design products to provide a seamless experience to marketers who rely on those products. Here you'll find information about the integrations that are available and how to use them.

Explore the plugins that GenStudio for Performance Marketing offers, with other Adobe products and beyond, to streamline your design workflows.

Note: Although these plugins allow creatives to make ad templates and export them as approved expriences to GenStudio, Adobe Express templates within GenStudio for Performance Marketing is the recommended approach for creatives to make ad templates.

## Figma plugin

The GenStudio for Performance Marketing Figma plugin adds a new panel to the Figma application that allows users to perform GenStudio for Performance Marketing actions, like generating on-brand content.

Learn more about the Figma plugin in the [Figma plugin](figma-plugin.md) page.

## Photoshop plugin

The GenStudio for Performance Marketing Photoshop plugin adds a new panel to Adobe Photoshop that allows users to perform GenStudio for Performance Marketing actions, like generating on-brand content.

Learn more about the Photoshop plugin in the [Photoshop plugin](photoshop-plugin.md) page.
