help/user-guide/insights/assets.md, before:

---
title: Assets overview
description: Learn how to evaluate asset performance in Adobe GenStudio for Performance Marketing.
feature: Insights, Assets
exl-id: 1e93422b-2645-4e29-a216-fc1008afbfc7
---
# Assets overview

The [!DNL Insights] _[!UICONTROL Assets]_ view shows a list of assets used in experiences and ad campaigns for the selected channel account.

The _[!UICONTROL Assets]_ gallery is the default view that shows a collage of asset previews and a metric, such as click-through rate. Click the settings (cog) icon above the right side of the gallery to toggle one of three viewable metrics:

- CPA (Cost per action)
- CTR (Click-through rate)
- CPC (Cost per click)
- Spend

The _[!UICONTROL Assets]_ table is organized using [!UICONTROL Asset ID]. The filter (funnel) icon above the left side of the table opens the **[!UICONTROL Filter]** menu where you can select from multiple lists.

![Assets filter and table](/help/assets/insights-assets-filter.png){zoomable="yes"}

You can toggle between the views using the view list (table) icon and the gallery view (grid) icon.

## Asset details

An _asset_ is an image, video, text, or other creative content approved for use in your marketing initiatives.

In the asset details view, you can see which experiences use the selected asset. Details include total asset performance, user-defined attributes, and AI-detected features associated with the asset.

![Asset details](/help/assets/insights-asset-details.png){zoomable="yes"}

## Asset performance

Insights metrics can help you evaluate which assets contribute to the success of a campaign and which asset attributes are most effective.

The following table provides definitions and insights for key digital marketing metrics in the [!UICONTROL Assets] table view. Each metric includes a brief definition as it relates to an asset, how the metric is calculated, and one or more insights to help understand its significance and impact on an asset.

| Metric                 | Definition                    | Insight                          |
| ---------------------- | ----------------------------- | -------------------------------- |
| **[!UICONTROL Asset ID]**  | The name associated with this asset. | Sort the table by clicking on the column heading for any of the key metrics. |
| **[!UICONTROL Impressions]** | A count of each time the asset loads in the channel, regardless of interaction or viewing. | A high impression count can indicate broad visibility, but for true performance insight, consider it in relation with other engagement metrics. |
| **[!UICONTROL Clicks]**      | The number of times users interact with a clickable element, such as a link, on the asset. | A high click count indicates strong interest and engagement with the content, which may be effective and reaching the right audience. |
| **[!UICONTROL CTR]**<br>_Click-through rate_ | Percentage (%) of impressions that resulted in asset clicks within an experience.<br>**Calculation**: `clicks` divided by `impressions` | A high click-through rate indicates that the content is highly relevant and motivating to the audience in the messaging and design, and is effectively targeting the audience's interests. |
| **[!UICONTROL CPM]**<br>_Cost per thousand_ | Cost for every one thousand ad impressions for the asset.<br>**Calculation**: total amount `spent` divided by reach, then multiplied by 1000 | A low value may indicate cost-effective visibility, especially when paired with a high click-through rate. |
| **[!UICONTROL CPA]**<br>_Cost per Action_ | Average cost spent to achieve a specific customer action, such as a purchase or subscription.<br>**Calculation**: total amount `spent` divided by the number of customer actions completed | Helps to identify assets that result in valuable customer actions. |
| **[!UICONTROL CPC]**<br>_Cost per click_ | Average cost associated with each click on an asset.<br>**Calculation**: total amount `spent` divided by `clicks` | Lower average costs may indicate cost-efficient ad spend, especially when compared with a rise in conversions. |
| **[!UICONTROL Spend]**       | The amount spent from the budget as it relates to individual assets over a given period of time. | A high spend amount in a short period may indicate rapid usage, which could lead to early depletion of resources. Track the spend amount against key performance metrics to help monitor the overall return on investment. |
| **[!UICONTROL Experiences count]** | The number of experiences that use this asset. | |
| **[!UICONTROL Attributes]**  | A list of attributes detected and applied to this asset. | |

Commit message:

download insights with small adjustments

help/user-guide/insights/assets.md, after:

---
title: Assets overview
description: Learn how to evaluate asset performance in Adobe GenStudio for Performance Marketing.
feature: Insights, Assets
exl-id: 1e93422b-2645-4e29-a216-fc1008afbfc7
---
# Assets overview

The [!DNL Insights] _[!UICONTROL Assets]_ view shows a list of assets used in experiences and ad campaigns for the selected channel account.

{{connect-insights}}

The _[!UICONTROL Assets]_ table is organized using [!UICONTROL Asset ID]. You can toggle between the views using the view list (table) icon and the gallery view (grid) icon. Click the settings (cog) icon above the right side of the table to toggle the viewable columns. The filter (funnel) icon above the left side of the table opens the **[!UICONTROL Filter]** menu where you can select from multiple lists.

![Assets filter and table](/help/assets/insights-assets-filter.png){zoomable="yes"}

{{$include /help/_includes/download-insights.md}}

The _[!UICONTROL Assets]_ gallery view shows a collage of asset previews and a metric, such as click-through rate. Click the settings (cog) icon above the right side of the gallery to open **[!UICONTROL Card settings]** and toggle one of three viewable metrics:

- CPA (Cost per action)
- CTR (Click-through rate)
- CPC (Cost per click)
- Spend

## Asset details

An _asset_ is an image, video, text, or other creative content approved for use in your marketing initiatives.

In the asset details view, you can see which experiences use the selected asset. Details include total asset performance, user-defined attributes, and AI-detected features associated with the asset.

![Asset details](/help/assets/insights-asset-details.png){zoomable="yes"}

## Asset performance

Insights metrics can help you evaluate which assets contribute to the success of a campaign and which asset attributes are most effective.

The following table provides definitions and insights for key digital marketing metrics in the [!UICONTROL Assets] table view. Each metric includes a brief definition as it relates to an asset, how the metric is calculated, and one or more insights to help understand its significance and impact on an asset.

| Metric                 | Definition                    | Insight                          |
| ---------------------- | ----------------------------- | -------------------------------- |
| **[!UICONTROL Asset ID]**  | The name associated with this asset. | Sort the table by clicking on the column heading for any of the key metrics. |
| **[!UICONTROL Impressions]** | A count of each time the asset loads in the channel, regardless of interaction or viewing. | A high impression count can indicate broad visibility, but for true performance insight, consider it in relation with other engagement metrics. |
| **[!UICONTROL Clicks]**      | The number of times users interact with a clickable element, such as a link, on the asset. | A high click count indicates strong interest and engagement with the content, which may be effective and reaching the right audience. |
| **[!UICONTROL CTR]**<br>_Click-through rate_ | Percentage (%) of impressions that resulted in asset clicks within an experience.<br>**Calculation**: `clicks` divided by `impressions` | A high click-through rate indicates that the content is highly relevant and motivating to the audience in the messaging and design, and is effectively targeting the audience's interests. |
| **[!UICONTROL CPM]**<br>_Cost per thousand_ | Cost for every one thousand ad impressions for the asset.<br>**Calculation**: total amount `spent` divided by reach, then multiplied by 1000 | A low value may indicate cost-effective visibility, especially when paired with a high click-through rate. |
| **[!UICONTROL CPA]**<br>_Cost per Action_ | Average cost spent to achieve a specific customer action, such as a purchase or subscription.<br>**Calculation**: total amount `spent` divided by the number of customer actions completed | Helps to identify assets that result in valuable customer actions. |
| **[!UICONTROL CPC]**<br>_Cost per click_ | Average cost associated with each click on an asset.<br>**Calculation**: total amount `spent` divided by `clicks` | Lower average costs may indicate cost-efficient ad spend, especially when compared with a rise in conversions. |
| **[!UICONTROL Spend]**       | The amount spent from the budget as it relates to individual assets over a given period of time. | A high spend amount in a short period may indicate rapid usage, which could lead to early depletion of resources. Track the spend amount against key performance metrics to help monitor the overall return on investment. |
| **[!UICONTROL Experiences count]** | The number of experiences that use this asset. | |
| **[!UICONTROL Attributes]**  | A list of attributes detected and applied to this asset. | |
