help/user-guide/insights/image-features.md, before:

---
title: Image features
description: Learn about the image feature of attribute categories used in GenStudio for Performance Marketing.
feature: Insights, Attributes, Generative AI
---
# Image features

Image features represent distinct and informative elements or patterns within an image that are used for analysis with [!DNL Insights].

## Detect image style

Determining the _image style_ serves as a foundation for identifying other image characteristics. The AI can apply the appropriate analysis techniques and recognize relevant features, leading to a more comprehensive understanding of the image. Each style has distinct visual characteristics that influence how the image is perceived and analyzed. 

If the image style is identified as a `photograph`, additional traits such as `camera settings`, `camera proximity`, and `Photography genres` can be analyzed. These traits are specific to photographs and provide deeper insights into the image's composition and quality. See [28 types of photography styles](https://www.adobe.com/creativecloud/photography/discover/types-of-photography.html) in Adobe's _Learn photography_ and learn about popular types of photography and foundational terminology.

If the image style is identified as a `sketch` or a `digital cartoon`, a different sets of characteristics may be relevant. This hierarchical approach ensures that the analysis is contextually accurate and tailored to the specific type of image being examined.

The following table lists the image feature categories recognized by the GenStudio for Performance Marketing AI:

<!-- For the writer: turn off word wrap to work with these tables. Option + Z -->

| Category                | Description                                                                                           | Example                                                                                                                                                                        |
| ----------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| Attention distribution  | The level of viewer attention spread across an image, indicating how much focus different areas of the image may receive. A higher distribution means that no single area dominates the viewer's focus, while a lower distribution means that one or two focal points capture the viewer's attention.  | `high`, `medium`, `low`<p>Example of `low` distribution on the left and `high` distribution on the right:<p>![low and high-distribution ball play](/help/assets/category/image-attn-lowhigh.png "Difference in low and high distribution"){width="200" zoomable="yes"} |
| Camera angle            | The perspective from which the camera captures the subject, which affects the viewer's perception and interpretation of the image. If the Image style is `photograph`, then this trait is identified. | `Low angle`, `High angle`, `Eye level`, `Overhead view`, `Dutch angle`, `Bird's eye view`<p>Example of `eye level`:<p>![eye level](/help/assets/category/image-camera-angle.png "People sitting at different angles"){width="200" zoomable="yes"}                                                                                         |
| Camera setting          | The specific adjustments and configurations of the camera's controls that influence the final appearance and quality of the image. If the Image style is `photograph`, then this trait is identified. | `Fast shutter speed`, `Long exposure`, `Bokeh blur`, `Motion blur`, `Tilt-shift blur`, `Flash`, `Wide-angle`, `Black and white`, `Surreal`, `Double-exposure`, `Macro`, `Normal mode`<p>Example of a `macro` setting:<p>![Macro close-up shot](/help/assets/category/image-subject-distance.png "Macro setting for close-up flower and jeweled bee"){width="200" zoomable="yes"} |
| Color and tone          | The colors and tonal qualities within an image. Identifies up to three colors from a predefined set of 40 colors in different image layers:<p>**[!UICONTROL Foreground colors]**—colors in the front layer of the image<br>**[!UICONTROL Background colors]**—colors in the back layer of the image | Color values: `Red`, `Dark Red`, `Green`, `Bright Green`, `Dark Green`, `Light Green`, `Mud Green`, `Blue`, `Dark Blue`, `Light Blue`, `Royal Blue`, `Black`, `White`, `Off White`, `Gray`, `Dark Gray`, `Silver`, `Cream`, `Magenta`, `Cyan`, `Yellow`, `Mustard`, `Khaki`, `Brown`, `Dark Brown`, `Violet`, `Pink`, `Dark Pink`, `Maroon`, `Tan`, `Purple`, `Lavender`, `Turquoise`, `Plum`, `Gold`, `Emerald`, `Orange`, `Beige`, `Lilac`, `Olive` |
| Color temperature       | Describes the general warmth or coolness of colors in the image.                                          | Tone or temperature values: `warm`, `cool`, `neutral`<br>![colors and cool tones](/help/assets/category/image-color-temp.png "Color temperature with cool background and multiple colored objects"){width="200" zoomable="yes"} |
| Content density         | The concentration of visual elements and details within an image, indicating how much information is packed into the visual space.<p>Unlike attention distribution, which measures how viewer focus is spread across different areas of an image, content density focuses on the quantity of visual information present. A higher content density means that more elements are present. | `high`, `medium`, `low`<p>Example of `low` density on the left and `high` density on the right:<p>![low and high-density ball play](/help/assets/category/image-attn-lowhigh.png "Difference in low and high content density"){width="200" zoomable="yes"} |
| Image style             | The visual treatment of an image, such as a photograph or sketch. Once the AI determines the image style, other traits may be identified. For example, if the image is a photograph, then camera settings, camera proximity, and lighting conditions may apply.   | `Photograph`, `Sketch`, `Painting`, `Digital cartoon`, `Infographics`, `Graphic design`, `Collage`, `Software screenshot`<p>Example of a `digital cartoon` image style![cartoon image style](/help/assets/category/image-style.png "Image style cartoon of a cat"){width="200" zoomable="yes"}       |
| Lighting condition      | Describes the quality and characteristics of light in an image, affecting its mood, tone, and visibility. | `Golden hour`, `Blue hour`, `Midday`, `Overcast`, `Night`, `High-key`, `Low-key`, `Daylighting`, `Incandescent`, `Fluorescent`, `Colorful`, `Studio`<p>Example of `daylighting` condition:<p>![Person and dog on sidewalk in daylighting condition](/help/assets/category/image-lighting.png "Daylighting condition"){width="200" zoomable="yes"} |
| Objects                 | Identifies one or more items, entities, and elements that make up the image.                              | Values are too numerous, but some examples include: `backpack`, `book`, `hawk`, `glasses`, `fish`, `pencil`, `mountain bike`, `soap`<p>Example of `toucan` and `bird` objects:<p>![bird, toucan object](/help/assets/category/image-objects-bird.png "Graphic design of Toucan bird object"){width="200" zoomable="yes"}                                                                        |
| Orientation             | The alignment of the image in relation to its width and height. Detects whether it is wider than it is tall (landscape), taller than it is wide (portrait), or equal in width and height (square). | `landscape`, `portrait`, `square`<p>Example of a `square` orientation:<p>![square sketch](/help/assets/category/image-orientation-square.png "Square orientation flower sketch"){width="200" zoomable="yes"} |
| People                  | When at least one person is present, one or more attributes may describe the person or persons in the image. | `person`, `woman`, `man`, `girl`, `boy`, `social group`, `kid`, `crowd`, `people`<p>Example of people `woman` and `person` categories:<p>![person woman with camera](/help/assets/category/image-people.png "Person managing a camera"){width="200" zoomable="yes"}                                                                             |
| Photography genres      | Detects the subject and technique used to capture an image, such as `abstract` or `landscape` (not the same as landscape orientation). | `Architecture`, `Astro`, `Landscape`, `Pet`, `Interior`, `Wildlife`, `Night`, `Cityscape`, `Seascape`, `Underwater`, `Storm`, `Adventure sports`, `Fashion`, `Portrait`, `Sports`, `Food`, `Street`, `Event`, `Lifestyle`, `Commercial`, `Group`, `Abstract`, `Minimalist`, `Composite`<p>See [Types of photography](https://www.adobe.com/creativecloud/photography/discover/types-of-photography.html)          |
| Scenes                  | Identifies the setting or environment within an image, providing context about where the image was captured or the type of location depicted. | Values are too numerous, but some examples include: `lake`, `underwater`, `highway`, `hill`, `log cabin`, `island`, `beach`, `lounge`<p>Example `snow`, `sky`, `winter`, and `mountain` scenes reflected on a helmet:<p>![winter snow scene](/help/assets/category/image-scenes.png "Winter, snow, sky, and mountain scene reflection"){width="200" zoomable="yes"}                            |
| Subject distance        | The distance between the camera and the subject of an image.                                              | `close up`, `mid shot`, `long shot`<p>Example of a `closeup shot`:<p>![close-up shot](/help/assets/category/image-subject-distance.png "Close up flower and jeweled bee"){width="200" zoomable="yes"}                                           |
| Styles                  | Detects visual treatments applied to image elements, such as those used in Lightroom or Photoshop.        | `design`, `illustration`, `logo`, `square`, `cartoon`, `art`, `circle`, `circular`<p>Example of `circular` style:<p>![circular gateway in coral reef](/help/assets/category/image-styles-circular.png "Circular portal in a coral reef"){width="200" zoomable="yes"}       |
| Tags                    | Detects other image characteristics that do not fall under a specific classification. Tags provide additional context and metadata about the image. For example, the AI may detect `helmet` and `motorobike` objects in an image, and include `riding` as a tag. | Values are too numerous, but some examples include: `construction`, `gothic`, `healing`, `military`, `selfie`, `football`, `typing`, `dancer`, `dancing`<p>Example of `dancer` and `dancing` tags:<p>![tags for dancer and dancing](/help/assets/category/image-tags.png "Dancing person"){width="200" zoomable="yes"}                                     |

Commit message:

Add video context and search instructions

help/user-guide/insights/image-features.md, after:

---
title: Image features
description: Learn about the image feature of attribute categories used in GenStudio for Performance Marketing.
feature: Insights, Attributes, Generative AI
---
# Image features

Image features represent distinct and informative elements or patterns within an image that are used for analysis with [!DNL Insights].

## Style detection

Determining the _image style_ serves as a foundation for identifying other image characteristics. The AI can apply the appropriate analysis techniques and recognize relevant features, leading to a more comprehensive understanding of the image. Each style has distinct visual characteristics that influence how the image is perceived and analyzed. 

If the image style is identified as a `photograph`, the AI analyzes additional traits for `camera settings`, `camera proximity`, and `Photography genres`. These traits are specific to photographs and provide deeper insights into the image's composition and quality. See [28 types of photography styles](https://www.adobe.com/creativecloud/photography/discover/types-of-photography.html) in Adobe's _Learn photography_ and learn about popular types of photography and foundational terminology.

If the image style is identified as a `sketch` or a `digital cartoon`, a different sets of characteristics may be relevant. This hierarchical approach ensures that the analysis is contextually accurate and tailored to the specific type of image being examined.

## Search image features

**To view images in a specific attribute category**:

1. In _[!DNL Insights]_, select the **[!UICONTROL Attributes]** view.

1. Change the table view by selecting **[!UICONTROL Images]**.

1. Select an image feature from the **[!UICONTROL Attribute category]** list, such as `Scenes`.

1. Click an attribute for a detailed view of images that share that category.

   As an example, the `Scenes` category may have `restaurant` as an attribute.

1. The _Attribute details_ page lists all the images with this attribute.

The following table lists the image feature categories recognized by the GenStudio for Performance Marketing AI:

<!-- For the writer: turn off word wrap to work with these tables. Option + Z -->

| Category                | Description                                                                                           | Example                                                                                                                                                                        |
| ----------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| Attention distribution  | The level of viewer attention spread across an image, indicating how much focus different areas of the image may receive. A higher distribution means that no single area dominates the viewer's focus, while a lower distribution means that one or two focal points capture the viewer's attention.  | `high`, `medium`, `low`<p>Example of `low` distribution on the left and `high` distribution on the right:<p>![low and high-distribution ball play](/help/assets/category/image-attn-lowhigh.png "Difference in low and high distribution"){width="200" zoomable="yes"} |
| Camera angle            | The perspective from which the camera captures the subject, which affects the viewer's perception and interpretation of the image. If the Image style is `photograph`, then this trait is identified. | `Low angle`, `High angle`, `Eye level`, `Overhead view`, `Dutch angle`, `Bird's eye view`<p>Example of `eye level`:<p>![eye level](/help/assets/category/image-camera-angle.png "People sitting at different angles"){width="200" zoomable="yes"}                                                                                         |
| Camera setting          | The specific adjustments and configurations of the camera's controls that influence the final appearance and quality of the image. If the Image style is `photograph`, then this trait is identified. | `Fast shutter speed`, `Long exposure`, `Bokeh blur`, `Motion blur`, `Tilt-shift blur`, `Flash`, `Wide-angle`, `Black and white`, `Surreal`, `Double-exposure`, `Macro`, `Normal mode`<p>Example of a `macro` setting:<p>![Macro close-up shot](/help/assets/category/image-subject-distance.png "Macro setting for close-up flower and jeweled bee"){width="200" zoomable="yes"} |
| Color and tone          | The colors and tonal qualities within an image. Identifies up to three colors from a predefined set of 40 colors in different image layers:<p>**[!UICONTROL Foreground colors]**—colors in the front layer of the image<br>**[!UICONTROL Background colors]**—colors in the back layer of the image | Color values: `Red`, `Dark Red`, `Green`, `Bright Green`, `Dark Green`, `Light Green`, `Mud Green`, `Blue`, `Dark Blue`, `Light Blue`, `Royal Blue`, `Black`, `White`, `Off White`, `Gray`, `Dark Gray`, `Silver`, `Cream`, `Magenta`, `Cyan`, `Yellow`, `Mustard`, `Khaki`, `Brown`, `Dark Brown`, `Violet`, `Pink`, `Dark Pink`, `Maroon`, `Tan`, `Purple`, `Lavender`, `Turquoise`, `Plum`, `Gold`, `Emerald`, `Orange`, `Beige`, `Lilac`, `Olive` |
| Color temperature       | Describes the general warmth or coolness of colors in the image.                                          | Tone or temperature values: `warm`, `cool`, `neutral`<br>![colors and cool tones](/help/assets/category/image-color-temp.png "Color temperature with cool background and multiple colored objects"){width="200" zoomable="yes"} |
| Content density         | The concentration of visual elements and details within an image, indicating how much information is packed into the visual space.<p>Unlike attention distribution, which measures how viewer focus is spread across different areas of an image, content density focuses on the quantity of visual information present. A higher content density means that more elements are present. | `high`, `medium`, `low`<p>Example of `low` density on the left and `high` density on the right:<p>![low and high-density ball play](/help/assets/category/image-attn-lowhigh.png "Difference in low and high content density"){width="200" zoomable="yes"} |
| Image style             | The visual treatment of an image, such as a photograph or sketch. Once the AI determines the image style, other traits may be identified. For example, if the image is a photograph, then camera settings, camera proximity, and lighting conditions may apply.   | `Photograph`, `Sketch`, `Painting`, `Digital cartoon`, `Infographics`, `Graphic design`, `Collage`, `Software screenshot`<p>Example of a `digital cartoon` image style![cartoon image style](/help/assets/category/image-style.png "Image style cartoon of a cat"){width="200" zoomable="yes"}       |
| Lighting condition      | Describes the quality and characteristics of light in an image, affecting its mood, tone, and visibility. | `Golden hour`, `Blue hour`, `Midday`, `Overcast`, `Night`, `High-key`, `Low-key`, `Daylighting`, `Incandescent`, `Fluorescent`, `Colorful`, `Studio`<p>Example of `daylighting` condition:<p>![Person and dog on sidewalk in daylighting condition](/help/assets/category/image-lighting.png "Daylighting condition"){width="200" zoomable="yes"} |
| Objects                 | Identifies one or more items, entities, and elements that make up the image.                              | Values are too numerous, but some examples include: `backpack`, `book`, `hawk`, `glasses`, `fish`, `pencil`, `mountain bike`, `soap`<p>Example of `toucan` and `bird` objects:<p>![bird, toucan object](/help/assets/category/image-objects-bird.png "Graphic design of Toucan bird object"){width="200" zoomable="yes"}                                                                        |
| Orientation             | The alignment of the image in relation to its width and height. Detects whether it is wider than it is tall (landscape), taller than it is wide (portrait), or equal in width and height (square). | `landscape`, `portrait`, `square`<p>Example of a `square` orientation:<p>![square sketch](/help/assets/category/image-orientation-square.png "Square orientation flower sketch"){width="200" zoomable="yes"} |
| People                  | When at least one person is present, one or more attributes may describe the person or persons in the image. | `person`, `woman`, `man`, `girl`, `boy`, `social group`, `kid`, `crowd`, `people`<p>Example of people `woman` and `person` categories:<p>![person woman with camera](/help/assets/category/image-people.png "Person managing a camera"){width="200" zoomable="yes"}                                                                             |
| Photography genres      | Detects the subject and technique used to capture an image, such as `abstract` or `landscape` (not the same as landscape orientation). | `Architecture`, `Astro`, `Landscape`, `Pet`, `Interior`, `Wildlife`, `Night`, `Cityscape`, `Seascape`, `Underwater`, `Storm`, `Adventure sports`, `Fashion`, `Portrait`, `Sports`, `Food`, `Street`, `Event`, `Lifestyle`, `Commercial`, `Group`, `Abstract`, `Minimalist`, `Composite`<p>See [Types of photography](https://www.adobe.com/creativecloud/photography/discover/types-of-photography.html)          |
| Scenes                  | Identifies the setting or environment within an image, providing context about where the image was captured or the type of location depicted. | Values are too numerous, but some examples include: `lake`, `underwater`, `highway`, `hill`, `log cabin`, `island`, `beach`, `lounge`<p>Example `snow`, `sky`, `winter`, and `mountain` scenes reflected on a helmet:<p>![winter snow scene](/help/assets/category/image-scenes.png "Winter, snow, sky, and mountain scene reflection"){width="200" zoomable="yes"}                            |
| Subject distance        | The distance between the camera and the subject of an image.                                              | `close up`, `mid shot`, `long shot`<p>Example of a `closeup shot`:<p>![close-up shot](/help/assets/category/image-subject-distance.png "Close up flower and jeweled bee"){width="200" zoomable="yes"}                                           |
| Styles                  | Detects visual treatments applied to image elements, such as those used in Lightroom or Photoshop.        | `design`, `illustration`, `logo`, `square`, `cartoon`, `art`, `circle`, `circular`<p>Example of `circular` style:<p>![circular gateway in coral reef](/help/assets/category/image-styles-circular.png "Circular portal in a coral reef"){width="200" zoomable="yes"}       |
| Tags                    | Detects other image characteristics that do not fall under a specific classification. Tags provide additional context and metadata about the image. For example, the AI may detect `helmet` and `motorobike` objects in an image, and include `riding` as a tag. | Values are too numerous, but some examples include: `construction`, `gothic`, `healing`, `military`, `selfie`, `football`, `typing`, `dancer`, `dancing`<p>Example of `dancer` and `dancing` tags:<p>![tags for dancer and dancing](/help/assets/category/image-tags.png "Dancing person"){width="200" zoomable="yes"}                                     |
