help/user-guide/insights/overview.md, before:

---
title: Overview of [!DNL Insights]
description: Learn how to optimize ads based on real-time content performance metrics.
level: Intermediate
feature: Reporting and Insights
exl-id: 26402a06-f776-42be-9d8d-fc498c0f75a8
---
# Adobe GenStudio for Performance Marketing [!DNL Insights]

Adobe GenStudio for Performance Marketing [!DNL Insights] provides advanced analytics and insights into content performance that can help you make data-driven decisions.

From the [!DNL Insights] dashboard, you can:

- **Identify the most effective content**: Pinpoint which content performs best for different audiences and tailor future content or campaigns for trending preferences.
- **Optimize low-performing content**: Find content that is not performing well and use the integrated generative AI to create variations immediately, potentially improving its effectiveness without starting from scratch.
- **Revitalize high-performing content**: Take successful content and tweak it to refresh the ad for the audience or adapt hero content for use in new campaigns, potentially extending its lifecycle and performance.

{{connect-insights}}

## Dashboard

The [!DNL Insights] dashboard has a configurable table for each content type: [!UICONTROL Channels], [!UICONTROL Ads], [!UICONTROL Media], and [!UICONTROL Attributes].

![[!DNL Insights] dashboard](/help/assets/insights-dashboard.png)

Each view displays a corresponding table, which you can search by keyword, filtering, and date range. You can click the settings (cog) icon above the right side of the table to toggle the viewable column types. The _[!UICONTROL Summary]_ row may show totals or averages of a column.

[!UICONTROL Ads], [!UICONTROL Media], and [!UICONTROL Attributes] include a gallery view that enables you to scan and sort assets using cards with an image or video thumbnail. There is an option to display one of three key metrics on each card: `Click-through rate`, `Cost per click`, and `Spend`.

### Channels

The [[!DNL Insights] _[!UICONTROL Channels]_ view](channels.md) is the default view and shows a list of active campaign details, such as objectives, budget, launch date, and activity. Be sure to [connect a channel account](connect-channel.md) so that GenStudio for Performance Marketing begins receiving your statistical data.

### Ads

The [[!DNL Insights] _[!UICONTROL Ads]_ view](ads.md) concentrates on evaluating the effectiveness of an ad. The [!UICONTROL Ads] view enables you to analyze an ad's metrics based on its ad placement within a specified date range. By clicking on an _[!UICONTROL Ad name]_, you can view the ad performance metrics, performance by ad placement, and attributes.

### Media

The [[!DNL Insights] _[!UICONTROL Media]_ view](media.md) is designed to help you analyze the performance of creative content. You can identify media attributes that contribute to improving a selected metric, such as clicks or impressions.

Clicking on media content provides further context about its performance across different ads and ad placements:

![Media details](/help/assets/insights-media-details.png){width="600" zoomable="yes"}

In the media details view, the left side shows a thumbnail of the asset and a list of attributes. There are three highlighted metrics: `Click-through rate`, `Cost per click`, and `Spend`. The performance highlights show how actual values (solid line) compare to the average value (dotted line) over the selected time period (default is `Last 30 days`).

### Attributes

Media _attributes_ help to identify creative content by inherent details, such as color, tone, composition (such as subject, fonts, visual elements), and other key components. Attributes are often the least measured and analyzed set of content information.

The [[!DNL Insights] _[!UICONTROL Attributes]_ view](attributes.md) can help you investigate and identify which attributes perform better with certain audiences, channels, regions, and can help you to highlight seasonal trends. With these insights, you can use performant attributes to create variants, target a specific audience, or experiment with different campaign strategies.

Commit message:

GS-12761 Update connectors and add settings

help/user-guide/insights/overview.md, after:

---
title: Overview of [!DNL Insights]
description: Learn how to optimize ads based on real-time content performance metrics.
level: Intermediate
feature: Reporting and Insights
exl-id: 26402a06-f776-42be-9d8d-fc498c0f75a8
---
# Adobe GenStudio for Performance Marketing [!DNL Insights]

Adobe GenStudio for Performance Marketing [!DNL Insights] provides advanced analytics and insights into content performance that can help you make data-driven decisions.

From the [!DNL Insights] dashboard, you can:

- **Identify the most effective content**: Pinpoint which content performs best for different audiences and tailor future content or campaigns for trending preferences.
- **Optimize low-performing content**: Find content that is not performing well and use the integrated generative AI to create variations immediately, potentially improving its effectiveness without starting from scratch.
- **Revitalize high-performing content**: Take successful content and tweak it to refresh the ad for the audience or adapt hero content for use in new campaigns, potentially extending its lifecycle and performance.

## Data connectors

The first time you open [!DNL Insights], you may see a banner to guide you to connect Adobe GenStudio for Performance Marketing with a channel account.

This connection enables GenStudio for Performance Marketing to receive statistical data from your active marketing campaigns, media, and ads. Initially, GenStudio for Performance Marketing ingests the last 6 months of data so that you have the tools to analyze the latest data and take action.

{{connect-insights}}

## Dashboard

The [!DNL Insights] dashboard has a configurable table for each content type: [!UICONTROL Channels], [!UICONTROL Ads], [!UICONTROL Media], and [!UICONTROL Attributes].

![[!DNL Insights] dashboard](/help/assets/insights-dashboard.png)

Each view displays a corresponding table, which you can search by keyword, filtering, and date range. You can click the settings (cog) icon above the right side of the table to toggle the viewable column types. The _[!UICONTROL Summary]_ row may show totals or averages of a column.

[!UICONTROL Ads], [!UICONTROL Media], and [!UICONTROL Attributes] include a gallery view that enables you to scan and sort assets using cards with an image or video thumbnail. There is an option to display one of three key metrics on each card: `Click-through rate`, `Cost per click`, and `Spend`.

### Channels

The [[!DNL Insights] _[!UICONTROL Channels]_ view](channels.md) is the default view and shows a list of active campaign details, such as objectives, budget, launch date, and activity. Be sure to [connect a channel account](connect-channel.md) so that GenStudio for Performance Marketing begins receiving your statistical data.

### Ads

The [[!DNL Insights] _[!UICONTROL Ads]_ view](ads.md) concentrates on evaluating the effectiveness of an ad. The [!UICONTROL Ads] view enables you to analyze an ad's metrics based on its ad placement within a specified date range. By clicking on an _[!UICONTROL Ad name]_, you can view the ad performance metrics, performance by ad placement, and attributes.

### Media

The [[!DNL Insights] _[!UICONTROL Media]_ view](media.md) is designed to help you analyze the performance of creative content. You can identify media attributes that contribute to improving a selected metric, such as clicks or impressions.

Clicking on media content provides further context about its performance across different ads and ad placements:

![Media details](/help/assets/insights-media-details.png){width="600" zoomable="yes"}

In the media details view, the left side shows a thumbnail of the asset and a list of attributes. There are three highlighted metrics: `Click-through rate`, `Cost per click`, and `Spend`. The performance highlights show how actual values (solid line) compare to the average value (dotted line) over the selected time period (default is `Last 30 days`).

### Attributes

Media _attributes_ help to identify creative content by inherent details, such as color, tone, composition (such as subject, fonts, visual elements), and other key components. Attributes are often the least measured and analyzed set of content information.

The [[!DNL Insights] _[!UICONTROL Attributes]_ view](attributes.md) can help you investigate and identify which attributes perform better with certain audiences, channels, regions, and can help you to highlight seasonal trends. With these insights, you can use performant attributes to create variants, target a specific audience, or experiment with different campaign strategies.
