help/user-guide/insights/video-features.md, before:

---
title: Video features
description: Learn about the video feature of attribute categories used in GenStudio for Performance Marketing.
feature: Insights, Attributes, Generative AI
---
# Video features

Image features represent distinct and informative elements, sounds, or patterns within a video for analysis with [!DNL Insights]. The following table lists the video feature categories recognized by the GenStudio for Performance Marketing AI.

<!-- For the writer: turn off word wrap to work with these tables. Option + Z -->

| Category            | Description                                                                                                  | Example                                                                                 |
| ------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Audio Mood          | Identifies the overall emotional tone or ambiance of the audio, such as `calm`, `upbeat`, or `tense`.        |          |
| Audio Types         | When audio is present, the video may receive a tag for one or more audio types, such as `music` or `speech`. |          |
| Categories          |    |  |
| Music Category      | When music is present, the video may receive one broad classification of music genre, such as `acoustic` or `traditional`. |          |
| Music Genre         | When music is present, the video may receive one classification of music style, such as `electronic` or `classical`.       |          |
| Objects             | Identifies one or more items, entities, and elements that appear throughout the video.                       | ![objects in video](../../assets/category/video-objects.png){width="200" zoomable="yes"} |
| Orientation         | The position of the video relative to the aspect ratio of the frame.            | `landscape`, `portrait`, `square`        |
| People              | When at least one person is present, one or more attributes may describe the person or persons in the video. |        |
| Scenes              | The setting or environment depicted in the video.                                                            |        |
| Styles              | Detects visual treatments applied to elements in the video, such as `matte` or `neon`.                       |        |
| Tags                | Detects objects, elements, and other video characteristics that do not fall under a specific classification. |        |

Commit message:

add more examples for video, and fixes for image, see text for now

help/user-guide/insights/video-features.md, after:

---
title: Video features
description: Learn about the video feature of attribute categories used in GenStudio for Performance Marketing.
feature: Insights, Attributes, Generative AI
---
# Video features

Image features represent distinct and informative elements, sounds, or patterns within a video for analysis with [!DNL Insights]. The following table lists the video feature categories recognized by the GenStudio for Performance Marketing AI.

<!-- For the writer: turn off word wrap to work with these tables. Option + Z -->
| Category            | Description                                                                                                  | Example                                                                                 |
| ------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Audio Mood          | Determines the overall emotional tone or atmosphere of the audio track, such as `calm`, `upbeat`, or `tense`. | `Energetic`, `Happy`, `Emotional Ambient/atmospheric`, `Relaxing`, `Dramatic`, `Expressive/characterful`, `Intense`, `Slow`, `Neutral` |
| Audio Types         | Tags the video with one or more types of audio present, such as `music` or `speech`.                         | `Music`, `Speech`, `Silence`, `Special effects`, `Ambience`         |
| Categories          | Classifies the video into one or more broad content categories.                                              | `Entertainment`, `Sports`, `Music`, `Gaming`, `Howto tutorials`, `Fashion and style`, `Film and animation`, `Science and technology`, `Autos and vehicles`, `Pets and animals`, `People and blogs`, `News and politics`, `Social causes and activism`, `Travel and events`, `Education`, `Sales and offers` |
| Music Category      | Tags the video with a broad classification of music genre when music is present.                             | `Contemporary/pop music`, `Traditional/folk-based music`, `Instrumental/orchestral music`, `Rock music`, `Acoustic/unplugged music`, `Specialised/occasional music`, `Experimental/unique music` |
| Music Genre         | Tags the video with a specific classification of music style when music is present.                          | `electronic`, `hip-hop`, `dance`, `novelty`, `rock`, `world`, `reggae`, `pop`, `film`, `jazz`, `background`, `latin`         |
| Objects             | Identifies and tags various items, entities, and elements that appear in the video.                          | Values are too numerous, but some examples include: `backpack`, `book`, `hawk`, `glasses`, `fish`, `pencil`, `mountain bike`, `soap`<p>![objects in video](/help/assets/category/video-objects.png "Multiple objects in video"){width="200" zoomable="yes"} |
| Orientation         | Specifies the video's aspect ratio orientation, such as `landscape`, `portrait`, or `square`.                | `landscape`, `portrait`, `square`        |
| People              | Tags the video with attributes describing any people present.                                                | `person`, `woman`, `man`, `girl`, `boy`, `social group`, `kid`, `crowd`, `people`       |
| Scenes              | Identifies and tags the setting or environment depicted in the video.                                        | Values are too numerous, but some examples include: `lake`, `underwater`, `highway`, `hill`, `log cabin`, `island`, `beach`, `lounge`      |
| Styles              | Detects visual treatments applied to video elements, such as those used in After Effects or Lightroom.       | `design`, `illustration`, `logo`, `square`, `cartoon`, `art`, `matte`, `neon`       |
| Tags                | Detects other video characteristics that do not fall under a specific classification. Tags provide additional context and metadata about the video.  | Values are too numerous, but some examples include: `construction`, `gothic`, `healing`, `military`, `selfie`, `football`, `typing`, `dancer`, `dancing`       |
