help/user-guide/content/asset-details.md, before:

---
title: Asset details
description: Adobe GenStudio for Performance Marketing stores approved content with rich metadata for searchability and performance tracking.
feature: Attributes, Assets
exl-id: 2be5cfee-f315-4ad6-8cf0-a8d3929b9ba3
---
# Asset details

Adobe GenStudio for Performance Marketing stores approved content with rich metadata for discoverability and performance tracking.

Each asset (including experiences and templates) has associated _details_ (metadata) that help to identify, track, use, and learn from content performance.

**To view asset details**:

1. In _[!DNL Content]_, select an asset, experience, or template. Clicking on an asset opens a focused view of the asset.

1. In the asset view, review the _[!UICONTROL Details]_ section on the right.

   >[!TIP]
   >
   >If the _[!UICONTROL Details]_ section is not visible, click the **[!UICONTROL Information]** (i) icon.

   Asset details include metadata applied during the creation or upload process. Asset metadata types include [system metadata](#system-metadata) and [user-defined metadata](#user-defined-metadata).

>[!NOTE]
>
>Assets from AEM repositories display different metadata. See [Configure asset visibility](connect-aem-repo.md#step-4-configure-asset-visibility) to learn how to configure [!DNL AEM Assets Content Hub] asset details.

## Edit in Express

You can edit image assets (JPG or PNG) directly within GenStudio for Performance Marketing using Adobe Express. The _[!UICONTROL Powered by Adobe Express]_ Canvas provides convenient features to enhance your images without leaving the GenStudio application. You can easily remove backgrounds, apply generative fills, adjust effects, and crop images.

1. In _[!DNL Content]_, select an image asset. Clicking on an asset opens a focused view of the asset.

1. In the asset view, click the **[!UICONTROL Edit in Adobe Express]** icon in the upper right.

1. In the _[!UICONTROL Powered by Adobe Express]_ Canvas, use the Express controls on the left panel to enhance your image.

1. When you are happy with the updated image, click **[!UICONTROL Save a copy]** in the upper right.

1. Select the file format—JPG or PNG—and click **[!UICONTROL Save a copy]**.

1. In the _[!UICONTROL Save a copy of asset]_ popup, update the **[!UICONTROL Asset name]**.

   - Select **[!UICONTROL Same details as original asset]** to carry over the asset details to the new image.

   - Expand the **[!UICONTROL More details]** section to update the Campaign, Guidelines, and other metadata.

   >[!TIP]
   >
   >The more details that you provide, the more you experience the robust capabilities of GenStudio for Performance Marketing. Select one or more details from the list, or enter a new one where applicable, such as with keywords. Each detail you add appears below the list. Click **`x`** to remove a detail.

1. Click **[!UICONTROL Save]**.

## System metadata

Some asset metadata is automatically collected when an asset is uploaded. You cannot edit default system metadata.

Default metadata that is stored and captured for an asset include the file's name, dimensions, source, and more.

### Generated tags

When you store an approved asset in [!DNL Content], GenStudio for Performance Marketing uses Adobe's AI and machine learning capabilities to study the asset and apply tags based on the asset features. For example, a picture of a cat may result in attribute tags like `pet photography` or `cat`, and color tags that identify dominant colors in the picture. You cannot edit tags that are detected and automatically applied.

See [!DNL Insights] [Attribute categories](/help/user-guide/insights/attribute-category.md) for detailed lists of image, video, and text features.

### Generated content metadata

The information used to generate a new asset or experience becomes metadata, such as the prompt that was used. You cannot edit the prompt once the content is approved, but you can use it as a starting place for generating something new.

## User-defined metadata

User-defined metadata adds marketing context to the asset's content, allowing marketers to understand how to use and engage with the asset.

When you [upload an asset](/help/user-guide/content/manage-assets.md#add-assets), you can define a set of optional asset details that exist in GenStudio for Performance Marketing as metadata. Including more details can improve asset identification in searches and filtering.

### Metadata details

The following table details the metadata (asset details) you can define when creating an asset.

| Field         | Description |
| ------------- | ----------- |
| Campaigns (project name) | Default metadata captured and stored with the asset |
| [!DNL Brands]    | [[!DNL Brands]](/help/user-guide/guidelines/brands.md) added to GenStudio for Performance Marketing and published for use |
| [!DNL Products]      | [[!DNL Products]](/help/user-guide/guidelines/products.md) added to GenStudio for Performance Marketing for use |
| [!DNL Personas]      | [[!DNL Personas]](/help/user-guide/guidelines/personas.md) added to GenStudio for Performance Marketing for use |
| Channels      | Content types in GenStudio for Performance Marketing the asset is used for, such as email and Meta ads |
| Timeframe     | Timeframe for which the asset it used, such as quarter, season, year, etc. Example: `Winter 2023` |
| Region        | Regions for which the asset is used. Examples: `North America`, `APAC`, `Italy` |
| Language      | Languages for which the asset is used. Example: `Spanish` |
| Keywords      | Keywords used for further identification of asset characteristics and purpose |

<!-- ## History

Expand the _[!UICONTROL History]_ section to view a timeline of approvals and activity.

list other activity, show screenshot?
-->

Commit message:

Add criteria for using Edit in Express feature

help/user-guide/content/asset-details.md, after:

---
title: Asset details
description: Adobe GenStudio for Performance Marketing stores approved content with rich metadata for searchability and performance tracking.
feature: Attributes, Assets
exl-id: 2be5cfee-f315-4ad6-8cf0-a8d3929b9ba3
---
# Asset details

Adobe GenStudio for Performance Marketing stores approved content with rich metadata for discoverability and performance tracking.

Each asset (including experiences and templates) has associated _details_ (metadata) that help to identify, track, use, and learn from content performance.

**To view asset details**:

1. In _[!DNL Content]_, select an asset, experience, or template. Clicking on an asset opens a focused view of the asset.

1. In the asset view, review the _[!UICONTROL Details]_ section on the right.

   >[!TIP]
   >
   >If the _[!UICONTROL Details]_ section is not visible, click the **[!UICONTROL Information]** (i) icon.

   Asset details include metadata applied during the creation or upload process. Asset metadata types include [system metadata](#system-metadata) and [user-defined metadata](#user-defined-metadata).

>[!NOTE]
>
>Assets from AEM repositories display different metadata. See [Configure asset visibility](connect-aem-repo.md#step-4-configure-asset-visibility) to learn how to configure [!DNL AEM Assets Content Hub] asset details.

## Edit in Express

You can edit image assets (JPG or PNG) directly within GenStudio for Performance Marketing using Adobe Express. The _[!UICONTROL Powered by Adobe Express]_ Canvas provides convenient features to enhance your images without leaving the GenStudio application. You can easily remove backgrounds, apply generative fills, adjust effects, and crop images.

>[!BEGINSHADEBOX]

Criteria for using the [!DNL Edit in Adobe Express] feature:

- Supported MIME types include `image/png` and `image/jpeg`
- Minimum dimension is 50x50 pixels
- Maximum dimension is 8000x8000 pixels
- Maximum size is 40MB (40,000,000 bytes)

>[!ENDSHADEBOX]

**To edit an asset with Express**:

1. In _[!DNL Content]_, select an image asset. Clicking on an asset opens a focused view of the asset.

1. In the asset view, click the **[!UICONTROL Edit in Adobe Express]** icon in the upper right.

1. In the _[!UICONTROL Powered by Adobe Express]_ Canvas, use the Express controls on the left panel to enhance your image.

1. When you are happy with the updated image, click **[!UICONTROL Save a copy]** in the upper right.

1. Select the file format—JPG or PNG—and click **[!UICONTROL Save a copy]**.

1. In the _[!UICONTROL Save a copy of asset]_ popup, update the **[!UICONTROL Asset name]**.

   - Select **[!UICONTROL Same details as original asset]** to carry over the asset details to the new image.

   - Expand the **[!UICONTROL More details]** section to update the Campaign, Guidelines, and other metadata.

   >[!TIP]
   >
   >The more details that you provide, the more you experience the robust capabilities of GenStudio for Performance Marketing. Select one or more details from the list, or enter a new one where applicable, such as with keywords. Each detail you add appears below the list. Click **`x`** to remove a detail.

1. Click **[!UICONTROL Save]**.

## System metadata

Some asset metadata is automatically collected when an asset is uploaded. You cannot edit default system metadata.

Default metadata that is stored and captured for an asset include the file's name, dimensions, source, and more.

### Generated tags

When you store an approved asset in [!DNL Content], GenStudio for Performance Marketing uses Adobe's AI and machine learning capabilities to study the asset and apply tags based on the asset features. For example, a picture of a cat may result in attribute tags like `pet photography` or `cat`, and color tags that identify dominant colors in the picture. You cannot edit tags that are detected and automatically applied.

See [!DNL Insights] [Attribute categories](/help/user-guide/insights/attribute-category.md) for detailed lists of image, video, and text features.

### Generated content metadata

The information used to generate a new asset or experience becomes metadata, such as the prompt that was used. You cannot edit the prompt once the content is approved, but you can use it as a starting place for generating something new.

## User-defined metadata

User-defined metadata adds marketing context to the asset's content, allowing marketers to understand how to use and engage with the asset.

When you [upload an asset](/help/user-guide/content/manage-assets.md#add-assets), you can define a set of optional asset details that exist in GenStudio for Performance Marketing as metadata. Including more details can improve asset identification in searches and filtering.

### Metadata details

The following table details the metadata (asset details) you can define when creating an asset.

| Field         | Description |
| ------------- | ----------- |
| Campaigns (project name) | Default metadata captured and stored with the asset |
| [!DNL Brands]    | [[!DNL Brands]](/help/user-guide/guidelines/brands.md) added to GenStudio for Performance Marketing and published for use |
| [!DNL Products]      | [[!DNL Products]](/help/user-guide/guidelines/products.md) added to GenStudio for Performance Marketing for use |
| [!DNL Personas]      | [[!DNL Personas]](/help/user-guide/guidelines/personas.md) added to GenStudio for Performance Marketing for use |
| Channels      | Content types in GenStudio for Performance Marketing the asset is used for, such as email and Meta ads |
| Timeframe     | Timeframe for which the asset it used, such as quarter, season, year, etc. Example: `Winter 2023` |
| Region        | Regions for which the asset is used. Examples: `North America`, `APAC`, `Italy` |
| Language      | Languages for which the asset is used. Example: `Spanish` |
| Keywords      | Keywords used for further identification of asset characteristics and purpose |

<!-- ## History

Expand the _[!UICONTROL History]_ section to view a timeline of approvals and activity.

list other activity, show screenshot?
-->
