help/user-guide/create/create-meta-ad.md, before:

---
title: Create a Meta ad experience
description: Learn how to create on-brand Meta ad experiences—for Facebook or Instagram—with Adobe GenStudio for Performance Marketing.
feature: Content, Brands Service, Guidelines, Content Generation, Create, Experiences, Variant Generation
role: User
level: Beginner
recommendations: noDisplay
exl-id: 42111bbf-70cd-4fd2-a7a9-15abe072d720
---
# Create a Meta ad experience

This tutorial demonstrates how to generate branded [Meta ad experiences](/help/user-guide/create/meta-experiences.md) using GenStudio for Performance Marketing [[!DNL Create]](/help/user-guide/create/overview.md) (paintbrush icon in the left navigation area).

Before you begin generating a Meta ad experience, it is important to [incorporate guidelines](/help/user-guide/guidelines/add-guidelines.md) in GenStudio for Performance Marketing and become familiar with the basics of [creating a prompt](/help/user-guide/effective-prompts.md).

## Choose a template

To get started generating a new Meta ad experience, use an available template to provide the framework for your content. See [Best practices for templates](/help/user-guide/content/best-practices-for-templates.md#follow-channel-specific-template-guidelines) for information about supported Meta ad aspect ratios.

**To choose a Meta ad template**:

1. In _[!DNL Create]_, click **[!UICONTROL Meta ads]** in the _"What do you want to create today?"_ section.
1. Use the search option, adjacent to _Filter_, to find a specific Meta ad template.
1. Click to select a template and click **[!UICONTROL Use]**.

   This action opens the Canvas, which is the central hub for content creation.

## Add parameters

Adding [guidelines](/help/user-guide/guidelines/overview.md) and assets in _Parameters_ in the prompt drawer enhances the content generation process and is a crucial step in preparing to generate a Meta ad.

**To add parameters and assets**:

1. Click the _Parameters_ icon to expand the prompt drawer.
1. In the _Parameters_ section, select guidelines—[!DNL Brands], [!DNL Personas], and [!DNL Products]—to inform content creation.

   ![Choose persona](/help/assets/persona-select.png){width="600" zoomable="yes"}

   If there are no brands, personas, or products available from these menus, [add guidelines to your GenStudio for Performance Marketing](/help/user-guide/guidelines/add-guidelines.md).

1. Add content for use in the experience *and* to influence content generation:
   * Click **[!UICONTROL Select from Content]** to select assets (images) from your [!DNL Content] repository, filter and select one or more images.

      ![Choose visual content](/help/assets/content-select-meta.png){width="500" zoomable="yes"}

      To use assets from a connected [!DNL AEM Assets Content Hub] repository, choose a repository from the _Location_ dropdown menu. Filter and select one or more images.

   * Or, drag and drop assets into the **[!UICONTROL Select from Content]** section to upload one or more new assets.
1. Click **[!UICONTROL Use]**.

When you are done adding parameters, you can collapse the prompt drawer by clicking the _Parameters_ icon again.

## Enter a prompt

After guidelines are selected, craft a prompt using natural language to start generating content for your new Meta ad experience. Detailed prompts yield higher quality output than vague or ambiguous prompts.

See [Write effective prompts](/help/user-guide/effective-prompts.md) to learn more about writing prompts.

**To enter a prompt**:

1. Enter a prompt in the _"Describe the experiences you want to generate"_ prompt box.
1. Click **[!UICONTROL Generate]**.

By default, four variations—all fueled by the prompt, guidelines, and content you added—are generated and shown in the Canvas.

Generated content loads progressively—as each section of the Meta experiences are generated they appear in the Canvas. See [Meta experiences](/help/user-guide/create/meta-experiences.md#progressive-loading) to learn how those changes are loaded in the Canvas.

## Choose Meta ads channel

When generating a Meta ad, you can choose between Facebook or Instagram ads.

Toggle the Meta ads channel option—between **Facebook** and **Instagram**—in the right menu bar (Facebook and Instagram icons) to see and manage variants for each channel.

When [revising the Meta ads](#revise-generated-meta-ads), you can change the aspect ratio of Facebook and Instagram ads.

## Revise generated Meta ads

Before selecting what to send for approval or publishing to [!DNL Content] you can edit the Meta ads or delete a variant from the set of generated ads.

**To revise generated variants**:

* **To [edit the Meta ad draft name](/help/user-guide/create/manage-variants.md#change-draft-name)**, click into the _Untitled Draft_ title at the top of the Canvas and enter a new title.
* **To [manually edit a Meta ad](/help/user-guide/create/manage-variants.md#manually-edit-text)**, click into any of the ad sections (such as the subject line,
header, or body copy) and edit as needed.
* **To change or select the call to action**, click the call-to-action button and select from the available button text options. In _Link_, enter a URL for the call-to-action text.
<!-- **To [change or select the Call to action](/help/user-guide/create/manage-variants.md#revise-call-to-action)**, click the call-to-action button and select _[!UICONTROL Rephrase]_ or _[!UICONTROL Add link]_. -->
* **To [regenerate a section of a variant](/help/user-guide/create/manage-variants.md#re-generate-sections)**, click an editable text field and use the _[!UICONTROL Suggested edits]_ options or enter a new prompt and click **[!UICONTROL Generate]**.
* **To [crop or reposition images](/help/user-guide/create/manage-variants.md#crop-assets)**, hover over an image, click the crop icon that appears, and adjust the image size and placement.
* **To [delete a Meta ad](/help/user-guide/create/manage-variants.md#delete-variant)**, click the ad title (for example, "Meta 4") and click **[!UICONTROL Delete variant]**.

## Submit generation feedback

To [submit feedback](/help/user-guide/create/manage-variants.md#generation-feedback) about the quality of the generation output, click the options icon (three dots) and select **[!UICONTROL Good output]** or **[!UICONTROL Poor output]**.

## Verify brand alignment

To optimize the generated ads and ensure strict adherence to brand identity, leverage the power of the [_Brand guidelines check_](/help/user-guide/guidelines/brand-validation.md#brand-guidelines-check)—providing a summary of brand alignment for a variant—and the [_Brand validation_ panel](/help/user-guide/guidelines/brand-validation.md#brand-validation-panel)—displaying comprehensive brand validation details and illuminating improvement areas.

**To verify brand alignment**:

1. Click the [**[!UICONTROL [!DNL Brand] guidelines check]**](/help/user-guide/guidelines/brand-validation.md#brand-guidelines-check) icon for a variant and see a summary of how that variant performs when checked against your brand.
1. To get the details of the sections and guidelines that need improvement, click **[!UICONTROL Review]** _or_ click the Brand validation icon in top menu bar to open the [_Brand validation panel_](/help/user-guide/guidelines/brand-validation.md#brand-validation-panel).

   ![Brand validation panel](/help/assets/brand-validation-panel-meta.png){width="600" zoomable="yes"}

1. Toggle through each ad to see how you can improve the generated content to be more brand-aligned.
1. [Manually revise ads](#revise-generated-meta-ads) to ensure your ads are closely aligned with your brand.

See [Brand validation](/help/user-guide/guidelines/brand-validation.md).

## Get reviews and approvals

Use the Approvals panel, accessible on the top menu bar of the Canvas, to obtain reviews, track review comments, and get approvals from stakeholders.

**To obtain reviews and approvals**:

1. [Launch an approval request](/help/user-guide/approvals/request-review.md) to solicit an [approval of drafted Meta ad experiences](/help/user-guide/approvals/approve-content.md).

   ![Send drafts for review and approval](/help/assets/send-approval-meta.png){width="450" zoomable="yes"}

1. [Remove or add reviewers](/help/user-guide/approvals/review-and-edit.md#manage-approvals) during the review process.
1. [Access the content for review](/help/user-guide/approvals/review-and-edit.md#access-content-for-review) and view the requests for revision.
1. Edit the drafts per review comments and [publish your Meta ad experiences](#publish-and-export-experience).

See [Reviews and approvals](/help/user-guide/approvals/overview.md) for more information.

## Publish and export experience

To make the generated Meta ads available for current and future use, publish it to [!UICONTROL Content] and export it for use in your marketing campaigns.

1. **To publish your new Meta ad experience(s)**, click **[!UICONTROL Publish]** in the top toolbar, or within the approvals flow.
1. **To export your new Meta ad experience(s)**, click **[!UICONTROL Export]** in the top toolbar.
   1. Select the format—HTML and images or CSV and images (JPG or PNG)—click **[!UICONTROL Export]**.

See [[!DNL Content]](/help/user-guide/content/overview.md#search-and-find-approved-content) for more information.

## Connect Meta

You can connect GenStudio for Performance Marketing to Meta to receive advanced analytics and [insights](/help/user-guide/insights/overview.md) into content performance.

See [Connect channel account](/help/user-guide/insights/connect-channel.md) for more information.

Commit message:

Update how tos with checks info

help/user-guide/create/create-meta-ad.md, after:

---
title: Create a Meta ad experience
description: Learn how to create on-brand Meta ad experiences—for Facebook or Instagram—with Adobe GenStudio for Performance Marketing.
feature: Content, Brands Service, Guidelines, Content Generation, Create, Experiences, Variant Generation
role: User
level: Beginner
recommendations: noDisplay
exl-id: 42111bbf-70cd-4fd2-a7a9-15abe072d720
---
# Create a Meta ad experience

This tutorial demonstrates how to generate branded [Meta ad experiences](/help/user-guide/create/meta-experiences.md) using GenStudio for Performance Marketing [[!DNL Create]](/help/user-guide/create/overview.md) (paintbrush icon in the left navigation area).

Before you begin generating a Meta ad experience, it is important to [incorporate guidelines](/help/user-guide/guidelines/add-guidelines.md) in GenStudio for Performance Marketing and become familiar with the basics of [creating a prompt](/help/user-guide/effective-prompts.md).

## Choose a template

To get started generating a new Meta ad experience, use an available template to provide the framework for your content. See [Best practices for templates](/help/user-guide/content/best-practices-for-templates.md#follow-channel-specific-template-guidelines) for information about supported Meta ad aspect ratios.

**To choose a Meta ad template**:

1. In _[!DNL Create]_, click **[!UICONTROL Meta ads]** in the _"What do you want to create today?"_ section.
1. Use the search option, adjacent to _Filter_, to find a specific Meta ad template.
1. Click to select a template and click **[!UICONTROL Use]**.

   This action opens the Canvas, which is the central hub for content creation.

## Add parameters

Adding [guidelines](/help/user-guide/guidelines/overview.md) and assets in _Parameters_ in the prompt drawer enhances the content generation process and is a crucial step in preparing to generate a Meta ad.

**To add parameters and assets**:

1. Click the _Parameters_ icon to expand the prompt drawer.
1. In the _Parameters_ section, select guidelines—[!DNL Brands], [!DNL Personas], and [!DNL Products]—to inform content creation.

   ![Choose persona](/help/assets/persona-select.png){width="600" zoomable="yes"}

   If there are no brands, personas, or products available from these menus, [add guidelines to your GenStudio for Performance Marketing](/help/user-guide/guidelines/add-guidelines.md).

1. Add content for use in the experience *and* to influence content generation:
   * Click **[!UICONTROL Select from Content]** to select assets (images) from your [!DNL Content] repository, filter and select one or more images.

      ![Choose visual content](/help/assets/content-select-meta.png){width="500" zoomable="yes"}

      To use assets from a connected [!DNL AEM Assets Content Hub] repository, choose a repository from the _Location_ dropdown menu. Filter and select one or more images.

   * Or, drag and drop assets into the **[!UICONTROL Select from Content]** section to upload one or more new assets.
1. Click **[!UICONTROL Use]**.

When you are done adding parameters, you can collapse the prompt drawer by clicking the _Parameters_ icon again.

## Enter a prompt

After guidelines are selected, craft a prompt using natural language to start generating content for your new Meta ad experience. Detailed prompts yield higher quality output than vague or ambiguous prompts.

See [Write effective prompts](/help/user-guide/effective-prompts.md) to learn more about writing prompts.

**To enter a prompt**:

1. Enter a prompt in the _"Describe the experiences you want to generate"_ prompt box.
1. Click **[!UICONTROL Generate]**.

By default, four variations—all fueled by the prompt, guidelines, and content you added—are generated and shown in the Canvas.

Generated content loads progressively—as each section of the Meta experiences are generated they appear in the Canvas. See [Meta experiences](/help/user-guide/create/meta-experiences.md#progressive-loading) to learn how those changes are loaded in the Canvas.

## Choose Meta ads channel

When generating a Meta ad, you can choose between Facebook or Instagram ads.

Toggle the Meta ads channel option—between **Facebook** and **Instagram**—in the right menu bar (Facebook and Instagram icons) to see and manage variants for each channel.

When [revising the Meta ads](#revise-generated-variants), you can change the aspect ratio of Facebook and Instagram ads.

## Revise generated variants

Before selecting what to send for approval or publishing to [!DNL Content] you can edit the Meta ads or delete a variant from the set of generated ads.

**To revise generated variants**:

* **To [edit the Meta ad draft name](/help/user-guide/create/manage-variants.md#change-draft-name)**, click into the _Untitled Draft_ title at the top of the Canvas and enter a new title.
* **To [manually edit a Meta ad](/help/user-guide/create/manage-variants.md#manually-edit-text)**, click into any of the ad sections (such as the subject line,
header, or body copy) and edit as needed.
* **To change or select the call to action**, click the call-to-action button and select from the available button text options. In _Link_, enter a URL for the call-to-action text.
<!-- **To [change or select the Call to action](/help/user-guide/create/manage-variants.md#revise-call-to-action)**, click the call-to-action button and select _[!UICONTROL Rephrase]_ or _[!UICONTROL Add link]_. -->
* **To [regenerate a section of a variant](/help/user-guide/create/manage-variants.md#re-generate-sections)**, click an editable text field and use the _[!UICONTROL Suggested edits]_ options or enter a new prompt and click **[!UICONTROL Generate]**.
* **To [crop or reposition images](/help/user-guide/create/manage-variants.md#crop-assets)**, hover over an image, click the crop icon that appears, and adjust the image size and placement.
* **To [delete a Meta ad](/help/user-guide/create/manage-variants.md#delete-variant)**, click the ad title (for example, "Meta 4") and click **[!UICONTROL Delete variant]**.

## Submit generation feedback

To [submit feedback](/help/user-guide/create/manage-variants.md#generation-feedback) about the quality of the generation output, click the options icon (three dots) and select **[!UICONTROL Good output]** or **[!UICONTROL Poor output]**.

## Verify brand alignment

To optimize the generated variants and ensure strict adherence to brand identity and compliance standards, leverage the power of the [_Brand and compliance check panel_](/help/user-guide/guidelines/brand-validation.md#brand-and-compliance-check-panel). This panel displays comprehensive brand, platform, and compliance validation details and illuminates improvement areas.

**To perform [!DNL Brand], platform, and compliance checks on a variant**:

1. Click the _Brand and compliance check_ panel in the right action bar to open the [_Brand and compliance checks panel_](/help/user-guide/guidelines/brand-validation.md#brand-and-compliance-check-panel). You can see details of the sections and guidelines that need improvement.
1. See a summary of the *Failed* and *Passed* checks to see which sections and guidelines need improvement.
1. [Manually revise variants](#revise-generated-variants) to ensure your variants are closely aligned with your brand and pass platform guidelines and compliance checks.

See [Brand validation](/help/user-guide/guidelines/brand-validation.md).

## Get reviews and approvals

Use the Approvals panel, accessible on the top menu bar of the Canvas, to obtain reviews, track review comments, and get approvals from stakeholders.

**To obtain reviews and approvals**:

1. [Launch an approval request](/help/user-guide/approvals/request-review.md) to solicit an [approval of drafted Meta ad experiences](/help/user-guide/approvals/approve-content.md).

   ![Send drafts for review and approval](/help/assets/send-approval-meta.png){width="450" zoomable="yes"}

1. [Remove or add reviewers](/help/user-guide/approvals/review-and-edit.md#manage-approvals) during the review process.
1. [Access the content for review](/help/user-guide/approvals/review-and-edit.md#access-content-for-review) and view the requests for revision.
1. Edit the drafts per review comments and [publish your Meta ad experiences](#publish-and-export-experience).

See [Reviews and approvals](/help/user-guide/approvals/overview.md) for more information.

## Publish and export experience

To make the generated Meta ads available for current and future use, publish it to [!UICONTROL Content] and export it for use in your marketing campaigns.

1. **To publish your new Meta ad experience(s)**, click **[!UICONTROL Publish]** in the top toolbar, or within the approvals flow.
1. **To export your new Meta ad experience(s)**, click **[!UICONTROL Export]** in the top toolbar.
   1. Select the format—HTML and images or CSV and images (JPG or PNG)—click **[!UICONTROL Export]**.

See [[!DNL Content]](/help/user-guide/content/overview.md#search-and-find-approved-content) for more information.

## Connect Meta

You can connect GenStudio for Performance Marketing to Meta to receive advanced analytics and [insights](/help/user-guide/insights/overview.md) into content performance.

See [Connect channel account](/help/user-guide/insights/connect-channel.md) for more information.
