help/user-guide/create/create-display-ad.md, before:

---
title: Create a display ad experience
description: Learn how to create display ad experiences in Adobe [!DNL GenStudio] for Performance Marketing.
feature: Brands Service, Guidelines, Content Generation, Generative AI, Create, Experiences, Variant Generation
badgeBeta: label="Beta" tooltip="This feature is currently in Beta, so some functionality may be limited or subject to change."
role: User
level: Beginner
recommendations: noDisplay
exl-id: 7d5e777b-7a30-48f4-b253-9823e38eecce
---
# Create a display ad experience

This tutorial demonstrates how to generate branded [display ad experiences](display-ad-experiences.md) using GenStudio for Performance Marketing [[!DNL Create]](/help/user-guide/create/overview.md) (paintbrush icon in the left navigation area).

To design a compelling display ad experience, it is recommended that you [add guidelines to GenStudio for Performance Marketing](/help/user-guide/guidelines/add-guidelines.md) and review the [basics of writing prompts](/help/user-guide/effective-prompts.md) before you begin.

## Choose a template

To create a display ad experience, use an available template to provide the framework for your content. See [Best practices for templates](/help/user-guide/content/best-practices-for-templates.md#follow-channel-specific-template-guidelines) for information about supported display ad dimensions.

**To choose a display ad template**:

1. In _[!DNL Create]_, click **[!UICONTROL Display ads]** in the _"What do you want to create today?"_ section.
1. Use the search option, adjacent to _Filter_, to find a specific display ad template.
1. In the _Select template_ view, click on a display ad template.
1. Click **[!UICONTROL Use]**.

   The Canvas, which serves as the central hub for content creation, is displayed.

## Add parameters

Adding [guidelines](/help/user-guide/guidelines/overview.md) and assets in _Parameters_ in the prompt drawer supercharges the content generation process and is an integral preparatory step for generating a display ad experience.

**To add parameters and assets**:

1. Click the _Parameters_ icon to expand the prompt drawer.
1. In the _Parameters_ section, select guidelines—[!DNL Brands], [!DNL Personas], and [!DNL Products]—to inform content creation.

   If there are no brands, personas, or products available from these menus, [add guidelines to your GenStudio for Performance Marketing](/help/user-guide/guidelines/add-guidelines.md).

1. To add content to be used in the experience *and* to influence content generation:
   * Click **[!UICONTROL Select from Content]** to select assets (images) from your [!DNL Content] repository, filter and select one or more images.

      To use assets from a connected [!DNL AEM Assets Content Hub] repository, choose a repository from the _Location_ dropdown menu. Filter and select one or more images.

   * Or, drag and drop assets into the **[!UICONTROL Select from Content]** section to upload one or more new assets.
1. Click **[!UICONTROL Use]**.

When you are finished adding parameters, collapse the prompt drawer by clicking the _Parameters_ icon again.

## Enter a prompt

After guidelines are selected, craft a prompt using natural language to start generating content for your new display ad experience. To enhance the quality of the generated display ad experiences, it is crucial to craft detailed and descriptive prompts.

![Enter a prompt](/help/assets/prompt-displayad.png){width="650" zoomable="yes"}

See [Write effective prompts](/help/user-guide/effective-prompts.md) to learn more about writing prompts.

**To enter a prompt**:

1. Enter a prompt in the _"Describe the experiences you want to generate"_ prompt box.
1. Click **[!UICONTROL Generate]**.

By default, four variations—fueled by the prompt, guidelines, and content you added—are generated and shown in the Canvas.

## Revise generated display ads

Before selecting what to send for approval or publishing to [!DNL Content] you can edit display ad sections and text fields, or delete a generated variant.

**To revise generated variants**:

* **To [edit the display ad draft name](/help/user-guide/create/manage-variants.md#change-draft-name)**, click into the _Untitled Draft_ title at the top of the Canvas and enter a new title.
* **To [manually edit a display ad](/help/user-guide/create/manage-variants.md#manually-edit-text)**, double-click into any of the display ad sections or fields (such as the subject line, header, or body copy) and edit as needed.
* **To [regenerate a section of a variant](/help/user-guide/create/manage-variants.md#re-generate-sections)**, click an editable text field and use the available options to rephrase, shorten, lengthen, or generate new text.
* **To [change the size and aspect ratio of the ad](/help/user-guide/create/manage-variants.md#change-aspect-ratio)**, click the _[!UICONTROL Resize]_ button (box with a button icon on the left side of the Canvas) and select a new size and aspect ratio to apply to all variants. The variants are duplicated and resized.
* **To [crop or reposition images](/help/user-guide/create/manage-variants.md#crop-assets)**, hover over the image, click the crop icon that appears, and adjust the image size and placement. Click **[!UICONTROL Apply]**.

<!-- # Preview for device
When revising and preparing email experiences, you can toggle between previews for desktop and mobile views to ensure coherence and visual appeal of draft variants.
**To preview variants for desktop and mobile devices** toggle the device preview option—between **desktop** and **mobile**—in the right menu bar (computer and phone icons) to preview how variants appear. -->

## Submit generation feedback

To [submit feedback](/help/user-guide/create/manage-variants.md#generation-feedback) about the quality of the generation output, click the options icon (three dots) and select **[!UICONTROL Good output]** or **[!UICONTROL Poor output]**.

## Verify brand alignment

To optimize the generated ads and ensure strict adherence to brand identity, leverage the power of the [_Brand validation panel_](/help/user-guide/guidelines/brand-validation.md#brand-validation-panel), which displays comprehensive brand validation details and illuminates improvement areas.

**To verify brand alignment**:

1. Click the Brand validation icon in top menu bar to open the [_Brand validation panel_](/help/user-guide/guidelines/brand-validation.md#brand-validation-panel). You can see details of the fragments and guidelines that need improvement.

1. Toggle through each ad to see how you can improve the generated content to be more brand-aligned.
1. [Manually revise ads](#revise-generated-display-ads) to ensure your emails are closely aligned with your brand.

See [Brand validation](/help/user-guide/guidelines/brand-validation.md).

## Get reviews and approvals

Use the Approvals panel, accessible on the top menu bar of the Canvas, to obtain reviews, track review comments, and get approvals from stakeholders.

**To obtain reviews and approvals**:

1. [Launch an approval request](/help/user-guide/approvals/request-review.md) to solicit an [approval of drafted email experiences](/help/user-guide/approvals/approve-content.md).
1. [Remove or add reviewers](/help/user-guide/approvals/review-and-edit.md#manage-approvals) during the review process.
1. [Access the content for review](/help/user-guide/approvals/review-and-edit.md#access-content-for-review) and view the requests for revision.
1. Edit the drafts per review comments and [publish your display ad experiences](#publish-and-export-experience).

See [Reviews and approvals](/help/user-guide/approvals/overview.md).

## Publish and export experience

To make the generated display ads available for current and future use, publish it to [!UICONTROL Content] and export it for use in your marketing campaigns.

1. **To publish your new display ad experience(s)**, click **[!UICONTROL Publish]** in the top toolbar, or within the approvals flow.
   1. Select _[!UICONTROL [!DNL Campaigns]]_ and add _[!UICONTROL More details]_ if desired.
   1. Click **[!UICONTROL Publish]**.

      ![Publish a display ad](/help/assets/publish-displayad.png){width="450" zoomable="yes"}

1. **To export your new display ad experience(s)**, click **[!UICONTROL Export]** in the top toolbar.
   1. Select the format—HTML and images, PNG, or JPG—and click **[!UICONTROL Export]**.

      Exported HTML should be placed within a predefined web property, like a template or `div` container. Without these set dimensions, images may appear distorted when viewed independently.

See [[!DNL Content]](/help/user-guide/content/overview.md#search-and-find-approved-content).

Commit message:

Update how tos with checks info

help/user-guide/create/create-display-ad.md, after:

---
title: Create a display ad experience
description: Learn how to create display ad experiences in Adobe [!DNL GenStudio] for Performance Marketing.
feature: Brands Service, Guidelines, Content Generation, Generative AI, Create, Experiences, Variant Generation
badgeBeta: label="Beta" tooltip="This feature is currently in Beta, so some functionality may be limited or subject to change."
role: User
level: Beginner
recommendations: noDisplay
exl-id: 7d5e777b-7a30-48f4-b253-9823e38eecce
---
# Create a display ad experience

This tutorial demonstrates how to generate branded [display ad experiences](display-ad-experiences.md) using GenStudio for Performance Marketing [[!DNL Create]](/help/user-guide/create/overview.md) (paintbrush icon in the left navigation area).

To design a compelling display ad experience, it is recommended that you [add guidelines to GenStudio for Performance Marketing](/help/user-guide/guidelines/add-guidelines.md) and review the [basics of writing prompts](/help/user-guide/effective-prompts.md) before you begin.

## Choose a template

To create a display ad experience, use an available template to provide the framework for your content. See [Best practices for templates](/help/user-guide/content/best-practices-for-templates.md#follow-channel-specific-template-guidelines) for information about supported display ad dimensions.

**To choose a display ad template**:

1. In _[!DNL Create]_, click **[!UICONTROL Display ads]** in the _"What do you want to create today?"_ section.
1. Use the search option, adjacent to _Filter_, to find a specific display ad template.
1. In the _Select template_ view, click on a display ad template.
1. Click **[!UICONTROL Use]**.

   The Canvas, which serves as the central hub for content creation, is displayed.

## Add parameters

Adding [guidelines](/help/user-guide/guidelines/overview.md) and assets in _Parameters_ in the prompt drawer supercharges the content generation process and is an integral preparatory step for generating a display ad experience.

**To add parameters and assets**:

1. Click the _Parameters_ icon to expand the prompt drawer.
1. In the _Parameters_ section, select guidelines—[!DNL Brands], [!DNL Personas], and [!DNL Products]—to inform content creation.

   If there are no brands, personas, or products available from these menus, [add guidelines to your GenStudio for Performance Marketing](/help/user-guide/guidelines/add-guidelines.md).

1. To add content to be used in the experience *and* to influence content generation:
   * Click **[!UICONTROL Select from Content]** to select assets (images) from your [!DNL Content] repository, filter and select one or more images.

      To use assets from a connected [!DNL AEM Assets Content Hub] repository, choose a repository from the _Location_ dropdown menu. Filter and select one or more images.

   * Or, drag and drop assets into the **[!UICONTROL Select from Content]** section to upload one or more new assets.
1. Click **[!UICONTROL Use]**.

When you are finished adding parameters, collapse the prompt drawer by clicking the _Parameters_ icon again.

## Enter a prompt

After guidelines are selected, craft a prompt using natural language to start generating content for your new display ad experience. To enhance the quality of the generated display ad experiences, it is crucial to craft detailed and descriptive prompts.

![Enter a prompt](/help/assets/prompt-displayad.png){width="650" zoomable="yes"}

See [Write effective prompts](/help/user-guide/effective-prompts.md) to learn more about writing prompts.

**To enter a prompt**:

1. Enter a prompt in the _"Describe the experiences you want to generate"_ prompt box.
1. Click **[!UICONTROL Generate]**.

By default, four variations—fueled by the prompt, guidelines, and content you added—are generated and shown in the Canvas.

## Revise generated variants

Before selecting what to send for approval or publishing to [!DNL Content] you can edit display ad sections and text fields, or delete a generated variant.

**To revise generated variants**:

* **To [edit the display ad draft name](/help/user-guide/create/manage-variants.md#change-draft-name)**, click into the _Untitled Draft_ title at the top of the Canvas and enter a new title.
* **To [manually edit a display ad](/help/user-guide/create/manage-variants.md#manually-edit-text)**, double-click into any of the display ad sections or fields (such as the subject line, header, or body copy) and edit as needed.
* **To [regenerate a section of a variant](/help/user-guide/create/manage-variants.md#re-generate-sections)**, click an editable text field and use the available options to rephrase, shorten, lengthen, or generate new text.
* **To [change the size and aspect ratio of the ad](/help/user-guide/create/manage-variants.md#change-aspect-ratio)**, click the _[!UICONTROL Resize]_ button (box with a button icon on the left side of the Canvas) and select a new size and aspect ratio to apply to all variants. The variants are duplicated and resized.
* **To [crop or reposition images](/help/user-guide/create/manage-variants.md#crop-assets)**, hover over the image, click the crop icon that appears, and adjust the image size and placement. Click **[!UICONTROL Apply]**.

<!-- # Preview for device
When revising and preparing email experiences, you can toggle between previews for desktop and mobile views to ensure coherence and visual appeal of draft variants.
**To preview variants for desktop and mobile devices** toggle the device preview option—between **desktop** and **mobile**—in the right menu bar (computer and phone icons) to preview how variants appear. -->

## Submit generation feedback

To [submit feedback](/help/user-guide/create/manage-variants.md#generation-feedback) about the quality of the generation output, click the options icon (three dots) and select **[!UICONTROL Good output]** or **[!UICONTROL Poor output]**.

## Verify brand alignment

To optimize the generated variants and ensure strict adherence to brand identity and compliance standards, leverage the power of the [_Brand and compliance check panel_](/help/user-guide/guidelines/brand-validation.md#brand-and-compliance-check-panel). This panel displays comprehensive brand, platform, and compliance validation details and illuminates improvement areas.

**To perform [!DNL Brand], platform, and compliance checks on a variant**:

1. Click the _Brand and compliance check_ panel in the right action bar to open the [_Brand and compliance checks panel_](/help/user-guide/guidelines/brand-validation.md#brand-and-compliance-check-panel). You can see details of the sections and guidelines that need improvement.
1. See a summary of the *Failed* and *Passed* checks to see which sections and guidelines need improvement.
1. [Manually revise variants](#revise-generated-variants) to ensure your variants are closely aligned with your brand and pass platform guidelines and compliance checks.

See [Brand validation](/help/user-guide/guidelines/brand-validation.md).

## Get reviews and approvals

Use the Approvals panel, accessible on the top menu bar of the Canvas, to obtain reviews, track review comments, and get approvals from stakeholders.

**To obtain reviews and approvals**:

1. [Launch an approval request](/help/user-guide/approvals/request-review.md) to solicit an [approval of drafted email experiences](/help/user-guide/approvals/approve-content.md).
1. [Remove or add reviewers](/help/user-guide/approvals/review-and-edit.md#manage-approvals) during the review process.
1. [Access the content for review](/help/user-guide/approvals/review-and-edit.md#access-content-for-review) and view the requests for revision.
1. Edit the drafts per review comments and [publish your display ad experiences](#publish-and-export-experience).

See [Reviews and approvals](/help/user-guide/approvals/overview.md).

## Publish and export experience

To make the generated display ads available for current and future use, publish it to [!UICONTROL Content] and export it for use in your marketing campaigns.

1. **To publish your new display ad experience(s)**, click **[!UICONTROL Publish]** in the top toolbar, or within the approvals flow.
   1. Select _[!UICONTROL [!DNL Campaigns]]_ and add _[!UICONTROL More details]_ if desired.
   1. Click **[!UICONTROL Publish]**.

      ![Publish a display ad](/help/assets/publish-displayad.png){width="450" zoomable="yes"}

1. **To export your new display ad experience(s)**, click **[!UICONTROL Export]** in the top toolbar.
   1. Select the format—HTML and images, PNG, or JPG—and click **[!UICONTROL Export]**.

      Exported HTML should be placed within a predefined web property, like a template or `div` container. Without these set dimensions, images may appear distorted when viewed independently.

See [[!DNL Content]](/help/user-guide/content/overview.md#search-and-find-approved-content).
