help/user-guide/create/display-ad-experiences.md, before:

---
title: Display ad experiences
description: Learn about display ad experiences in Adobe GenStudio for Performance Marketing.
feature: Experiences, Content Generation, Create, Generative AI, Variant Generation
role: User
level: Beginner
exl-id: 7951646f-38da-437d-a270-c5ac99fa51cf
---
# Display ad experiences

With Adobe GenStudio for Performance Marketing, you can use generative AI to streamline the [creation of successful display ad experiences](/help/user-guide/create/create-display-ad.md).

[!DNL Create] empowers modern marketers to [produce brand-consistent display ad experiences](/help/user-guide/create/create-display-ad.md) by using [guidelines](/help/user-guide/guidelines/overview.md), image assets, and a [well-crafted prompt](/help/user-guide/effective-prompts.md).

When generating display ad experiences four variations are created and shown in the Canvas.

GenStudio for Performance Marketing supports both [standard and custom size display ads](/help/user-guide/content/best-practices-for-templates.md#follow-channel-specific-template-guidelines).

Editable sections of a display ad experience include:

* Headline
* Body
* Call-to-action (CTA)
* Image

See [Template elements](/help/user-guide/content/use-templates.md#template-elements).

<!-- ## Character counts

After you generate a set of display ad variants, you can see the character count displayed for each section. Hover over or click into a generated section, such as the subject line or the body, and see the section name and character count for that section.

![Character count](/help/assets/character-count.png){width="500" zoomable="yes"} -->

Commit message:

Add beta label to all display ad topics

help/user-guide/create/display-ad-experiences.md, after:

---
title: Display ad experiences
description: Learn about display ad experiences in Adobe GenStudio for Performance Marketing.
feature: Experiences, Content Generation, Create, Generative AI, Variant Generation
badgeBeta: label="Beta" tooltip="This feature is currently in beta, so some functionality may be limited or subject to change."
role: User
level: Beginner
exl-id: 7951646f-38da-437d-a270-c5ac99fa51cf
---
# Display ad experiences

With Adobe GenStudio for Performance Marketing, you can use generative AI to streamline the [creation of successful display ad experiences](/help/user-guide/create/create-display-ad.md).

[!DNL Create] empowers modern marketers to [produce brand-consistent display ad experiences](/help/user-guide/create/create-display-ad.md) by using [guidelines](/help/user-guide/guidelines/overview.md), image assets, and a [well-crafted prompt](/help/user-guide/effective-prompts.md).

When generating display ad experiences four variations are created and shown in the Canvas.

GenStudio for Performance Marketing supports both [standard and custom size display ads](/help/user-guide/content/best-practices-for-templates.md#follow-channel-specific-template-guidelines).

Editable sections of a display ad experience include:

* Headline
* Body
* Call-to-action (CTA)
* Image

See [Template elements](/help/user-guide/content/use-templates.md#template-elements).

<!-- ## Character counts

After you generate a set of display ad variants, you can see the character count displayed for each section. Hover over or click into a generated section, such as the subject line or the body, and see the section name and character count for that section.

![Character count](/help/assets/character-count.png){width="500" zoomable="yes"} -->
