help/user-guide/create/email-experiences.md, before:

---
title: Email experiences
description: Learn about email experiences in Adobe GenStudio for Performance Marketing.
feature: Experiences, Content Generation, Create, Generative AI, Variant Generation
role: User
level: Beginner
---

# Email experiences

With Adobe GenStudio for Performance Marketing, you can use generative AI to streamline the [creation of high-impact email experiences](/help/user-guide/create/create-email-experience.md).

[!DNL Create] enables modern marketers to use [guidelines](/help/user-guide/guidelines/overview.md), image assets, and a [well-crafted prompt](/help/user-guide/effective-prompts.md) to quickly [create brand-aligned email experiences](/help/user-guide/create/create-email-experience.md).

Editable sections of an email experience include:

* Pre-header
* Headline
* Body
* Call-to-action (CTA)
* Image
* Brand logo

See [Template elements](/help/user-guide/content/use-templates.md#template-elements).

<!-- ## Email capabilities

Content creators and marketers can produce brand-consistent email experiences in GenStudio for Performance Marketing. -->

## Multi-section emails

Email experiences can feature multiple sections, allowing full customization to align with your brand and goals. [Select [!DNL Products] and visual assets for each section](/help/user-guide/create/create-email-experience.md#add-parameters) and use [structured prompts](/help/user-guide/effective-prompts.md#structured-prompts) to craft unique content. Each section supports one visual asset.

See [Prepare an email template](/help/user-guide/content/email-template.md) to learn how to create a multi-section template.

## Progressive loading

When the content generation process starts, each section of generated content in email variants progressively loads in the Canvas. Experiences, assets, and fields and sections within experiences, appear individually in the Canvas as they are generated.

When you click **[!UICONTROL Generate]**, a loading indicator appears at the bottom of the Canvas updating you on the progress of generation.

Each field and section of email experiences are progressively loaded in this sequence:

1. Variant names
1. Subject lines for all variations
1. Pre-headers
1. Headlines, email body (for single section emails), and calls-to-action
1. Email body for subsequent sections (for multi-section emails)
1. Brand validation process occurs and the [_Brand guidelines check_](/help/user-guide/guidelines/brand-validation.md#brand-guidelines-check) populates for each variant.

## Character counts

After you generate a set of email variants, you can see the character count displayed for each email section. Hover over or click into a generated section, such as the subject line or the body, and see the section name and character count for that section.

![Character count](/help/assets/character-count.png){width="500" zoomable="yes"}

Commit message:

Add info about display ads generating 4 variants

help/user-guide/create/email-experiences.md, after:

---
title: Email experiences
description: Learn about email experiences in Adobe GenStudio for Performance Marketing.
feature: Experiences, Content Generation, Create, Generative AI, Variant Generation
role: User
level: Beginner
---

# Email experiences

With Adobe GenStudio for Performance Marketing, you can use generative AI to streamline the [creation of high-impact email experiences](/help/user-guide/create/create-email-experience.md).

[!DNL Create] enables modern marketers to use [guidelines](/help/user-guide/guidelines/overview.md), image assets, and a [well-crafted prompt](/help/user-guide/effective-prompts.md) to quickly [create brand-aligned email experiences](/help/user-guide/create/create-email-experience.md).

When generating email experiences, four variation, all fueled by the prompt, guidelines, and content you added, are created and shown in the Canvas.

Editable sections of an email experience include:

* Pre-header
* Headline
* Body
* Call-to-action (CTA)
* Image
* Brand logo

See [Template elements](/help/user-guide/content/use-templates.md#template-elements).

<!-- ## Email capabilities

Content creators and marketers can produce brand-consistent email experiences in GenStudio for Performance Marketing. -->

## Multi-section emails

Email experiences can feature multiple sections, allowing full customization to align with your brand and goals. [Select [!DNL Products] and visual assets for each section](/help/user-guide/create/create-email-experience.md#add-parameters) and use [structured prompts](/help/user-guide/effective-prompts.md#structured-prompts) to craft unique content. Each section supports one visual asset.

See [Prepare an email template](/help/user-guide/content/email-template.md) to learn how to create a multi-section template.

## Progressive loading

When the content generation process starts, each section of generated content in email variants progressively loads in the Canvas. Experiences, assets, and fields and sections within experiences, appear individually in the Canvas as they are generated.

When you click **[!UICONTROL Generate]**, a loading indicator appears at the bottom of the Canvas updating you on the progress of generation.

Each field and section of email experiences are progressively loaded in this sequence:

1. Variant names
1. Subject lines for all variations
1. Pre-headers
1. Headlines, email body (for single section emails), and calls-to-action
1. Email body for subsequent sections (for multi-section emails)
1. Brand validation process occurs and the [_Brand guidelines check_](/help/user-guide/guidelines/brand-validation.md#brand-guidelines-check) populates for each variant.

## Character counts

After you generate a set of email variants, you can see the character count displayed for each email section. Hover over or click into a generated section, such as the subject line or the body, and see the section name and character count for that section.

![Character count](/help/assets/character-count.png){width="500" zoomable="yes"}
