help/user-guide/create/linkedin-experiences.md, before:

---
title: LinkedIn experiences
description: Learn about LinkedIn experiences in Adobe GenStudio for Performance Marketing.
feature: Experiences, Content Generation, Create, Generative AI, Variant Generation
role: User
level: Beginner
---
# LinkedIn experiences

With Adobe GenStudio for Performance Marketing, you can leverage generative AI to efficiently [create powerful LinkedIn experiences](/help/user-guide/create/create-linkedin.md).

[!DNL Create] enables content creators and marketers to employ [guidelines](/help/user-guide/guidelines/overview.md), image assets, and an [instructive prompt](/help/user-guide/effective-prompts.md) to [generate brand-adhered LinkedIn experiences](/help/user-guide/create/create-email-experience.md).

When generating LinkedIn experiences, four variations are created and shown in the Canvas.

Editable sections of a LinkedIn experience include:

* Headline
* Introductory text
* Description
* Call to action (CTA)
* Image
* Brand logo

See [Template elements](/help/user-guide/content/use-templates.md#template-elements).

## Progressive loading

When the content generation process starts, each section of generated content in variants progressively loads in the Canvas. Experiences, assets, and fields and sections within experiences, appear individually in the Canvas as they are generated.

When you click **[!UICONTROL Generate]**, a loading indicator appears at the bottom of the Canvas updating you on the progress of generation.

Each field and section of the LinkedIn experiences are progressively loaded in this sequence:

1. Primary text for all variations
1. Call-to-action and associated URLs
1. Headlines
1. On-image text
1. Brand validation

   The brand validation process occurs and the [_Brand guidelines check_](/help/user-guide/guidelines/brand-validation.md#brand-guidelines-check) populates for each variant.

## Character counts

After you generate a set of LinkedIn variants, you can see the character count displayed for each section. Hover over or click into a generated section, such as the subject line or the body, and see the section name and character count for that section.

![Character count](/help/assets/character-count.png){width="500" zoomable="yes"}

Commit message:

Beta badge for other topic

help/user-guide/create/linkedin-experiences.md, after:

---
title: LinkedIn experiences
description: Learn about LinkedIn experiences in Adobe GenStudio for Performance Marketing.
feature: Experiences, Content Generation, Create, Generative AI, Variant Generation
badgeBeta: label="Beta" tooltip="This feature is currently in Beta, so some functionality may be limited or subject to change."
role: User
level: Beginner
---
# LinkedIn experiences

With Adobe GenStudio for Performance Marketing, you can leverage generative AI to efficiently [create powerful LinkedIn experiences](/help/user-guide/create/create-linkedin.md).

[!DNL Create] enables content creators and marketers to employ [guidelines](/help/user-guide/guidelines/overview.md), image assets, and an [instructive prompt](/help/user-guide/effective-prompts.md) to [generate brand-adhered LinkedIn experiences](/help/user-guide/create/create-email-experience.md).

When generating LinkedIn experiences, four variations are created and shown in the Canvas.

Editable sections of a LinkedIn experience include:

* Headline
* Introductory text
* Description
* Call to action (CTA)
* Image
* Brand logo

See [Template elements](/help/user-guide/content/use-templates.md#template-elements).

## Progressive loading

When the content generation process starts, each section of generated content in variants progressively loads in the Canvas. Experiences, assets, and fields and sections within experiences, appear individually in the Canvas as they are generated.

When you click **[!UICONTROL Generate]**, a loading indicator appears at the bottom of the Canvas updating you on the progress of generation.

Each field and section of the LinkedIn experiences are progressively loaded in this sequence:

1. Primary text for all variations
1. Call-to-action and associated URLs
1. Headlines
1. On-image text
1. Brand validation

   The brand validation process occurs and the [_Brand guidelines check_](/help/user-guide/guidelines/brand-validation.md#brand-guidelines-check) populates for each variant.

## Character counts

After you generate a set of LinkedIn variants, you can see the character count displayed for each section. Hover over or click into a generated section, such as the subject line or the body, and see the section name and character count for that section.

![Character count](/help/assets/character-count.png){width="500" zoomable="yes"}
