help/user-guide/create/meta-experiences.md, before:

---
title: Meta experiences
description: Learn all about Meta experiences in Adobe GenStudio for Performance Marketing.
feature: Experiences, Content Generation, Create, Generative AI, Variant Generation
role: User
level: Beginner
exl-id: c1265a9d-8205-4abc-9652-1d8b88397f14
---
# Meta experiences

With Adobe GenStudio for Performance Marketing, you can use generative AI to streamline the [creation of high-impact Meta experiences](/help/user-guide/create/create-meta-ad.md).

[!DNL Create] enables content creators to use [guidelines](/help/user-guide/guidelines/overview.md), image assets, and a [well-crafted prompt](/help/user-guide/effective-prompts.md) to quickly [create Meta ad experiences](/help/user-guide/create/create-meta-ad.md).

When generating Meta experiences four variations are created and shown in the Canvas.

Editable sections of an email experience include:

* Headline
* Body
* Call-to-action (CTA)
* On-image text
* Image
* Brand logo

See [Template elements](/help/user-guide/content/use-templates.md#template-elements).

<!-- ## Meta ad capabilities

Content creators and marketers can produce brand-consistent Meta ad experiences in GenStudio for Performance Marketing. -->

## Meta ads channels

When creating Meta ad experiences, you can generate variants for both Facebook and Instagram channels. Toggle back and forth between Facebook and Instagram ads to preview variants for each channel.

See [Choose Meta ads channel](/help/user-guide/create/create-meta-ad.md#choose-meta-ads-channel).

## Progressive loading

When the content generation process starts, each section of generated content in variants progressively loads in the Canvas. Experiences, assets, and fields and sections within experiences, appear individually in the Canvas as they are generated.

When you click **[!UICONTROL Generate]**, a loading indicator appears at the bottom of the Canvas updating you on the progress of generation.

Each field and section of the Meta ad experiences are progressively loaded in this sequence:

1. Primary text for all variations
1. Calls-to-action and associated URLs
1. Headlines
1. On-image text
1. The brand validation process occurs and the [_Brand guidelines check_](/help/user-guide/guidelines/brand-validation.md#brand-guidelines-check) populates for each variant.

Commit message:

Add character count to Email experiences topic

help/user-guide/create/meta-experiences.md, after:

---
title: Meta experiences
description: Learn all about Meta experiences in Adobe GenStudio for Performance Marketing.
feature: Experiences, Content Generation, Create, Generative AI, Variant Generation
role: User
level: Beginner
exl-id: c1265a9d-8205-4abc-9652-1d8b88397f14
---
# Meta experiences

With Adobe GenStudio for Performance Marketing, you can use generative AI to streamline the [creation of high-impact Meta experiences](/help/user-guide/create/create-meta-ad.md).

[!DNL Create] enables content creators to use [guidelines](/help/user-guide/guidelines/overview.md), image assets, and a [well-crafted prompt](/help/user-guide/effective-prompts.md) to quickly [create Meta ad experiences](/help/user-guide/create/create-meta-ad.md).

When generating Meta experiences four variations are created and shown in the Canvas.

Editable sections of an email experience include:

* Headline
* Body
* Call-to-action (CTA)
* On-image text
* Image
* Brand logo

See [Template elements](/help/user-guide/content/use-templates.md#template-elements).

<!-- ## Meta ad capabilities

Content creators and marketers can produce brand-consistent Meta ad experiences in GenStudio for Performance Marketing. -->

## Meta ads channels

When creating Meta ad experiences, you can generate variants for both Facebook and Instagram channels. Toggle back and forth between Facebook and Instagram ads to preview variants for each channel.

See [Choose Meta ads channel](/help/user-guide/create/create-meta-ad.md#choose-meta-ads-channel).

## Progressive loading

When the content generation process starts, each section of generated content in variants progressively loads in the Canvas. Experiences, assets, and fields and sections within experiences, appear individually in the Canvas as they are generated.

When you click **[!UICONTROL Generate]**, a loading indicator appears at the bottom of the Canvas updating you on the progress of generation.

Each field and section of the Meta ad experiences are progressively loaded in this sequence:

1. Primary text for all variations
1. Calls-to-action and associated URLs
1. Headlines
1. On-image text
1. The brand validation process occurs and the [_Brand guidelines check_](/help/user-guide/guidelines/brand-validation.md#brand-guidelines-check) populates for each variant.

## Character counts

After you generate a set of Meta variants, you can see the character count displayed for each Meta ad section. Hover over or click into a generated section, such as the subject line or the body, and see the section name and character count for that section.

![Character count](/help/assets/character-count.png){width="500" zoomable="yes"}
