help/user-guide/create/overview.md, before:

---
title: Overview of GenStudio for Performance Marketing [!DNL Create]
description: Quickly generate high-performing, on-brand content with generative AI in Adobe GenStudio for Performance Marketing [!DNL Create].
feature: Create, Prompt, Guidelines, Experiences, Content Generation, Approval
exl-id: ca5ee31c-d2c2-42fb-a6bf-05fd63fe86d2
---
# GenStudio for Performance Marketing [!DNL Create]

GenStudio for Performance Marketing [!DNL Create] leverages the power of Adobe GenAI to empower marketers and distributed teams to create high-performing, on-brand experiences.

![Create dashboard](/help/assets/create.png){width="600" zoomable="yes"}

With [!DNL Create], you can generate content for the following channels:

* [Emails](email-experiences.md)
* [Meta ads](meta-experiences.md)
* [Display ads](display-ad-experiences.md)

Along with the power of [guidelines](/help/user-guide/guidelines/overview.md)—[!DNL Brands], [!DNL Products], and [!DNL Personas]—[Content](/help/user-guide/content/overview.md), [Reviews and Approvals](/help/user-guide/approvals/overview.md), and [Insights](/help/user-guide/insights/overview.md), [!DNL Create] facilitates the creation of impactful brand-aligned marketing content.

## [!DNL Create] use cases

<table style="table-layout:fixed">
<tr style="border: 0;">
   <td align="center" valign="top" width="100">
      <a href="/help/user-guide/create/create-email-experience.md">
      <img alt="Create new content" src="../../assets/icons/icon-create.svg" width="35">
      </a>
      <div>
         <a href="/help/user-guide/create/create-email-experience.md">
         <strong>Create an email experience</strong>
         </a>
      </div>
   </td>
   <td align="center" valign="top" width="100">
      <a href="/help/user-guide/create/create-meta-ad.md">
      <img alt="Create a Meta ad experience" src="../../assets/icons/icon-asset.svg" width="35">
      </a>
      <div>
         <a href="/help/user-guide/create/create-meta-ad.md">
         <strong>Create a Meta ad experience</strong>
         </a>
      </div>
   </td>
   <td align="center" valign="top" width="100">
      <a href="/help/user-guide/create/create-display-ad.md">
      <img alt="Create a display ad experience" src="../../assets/icons/icon-addTemplate.svg" width="35">
      </a>
      <div>
         <a href="/help/user-guide/create/create-display-ad.md">
         <strong>Create a display ad experience</strong>
         </a>
      </div>
   </td>
</tr>
</table>

GenStudio for Performance Marketing enables marketers to **create new marketing content**. In this use case, use defined [guidelines](/help/user-guide/guidelines/overview.md) and inspiration images to inform the creation of brand-aligned content.

## [!DNL Create] capabilities

[!DNL Create] integrates various components of GenStudio for Performance Marketing to assist users in generating content.

### Templates

After you select which channel you want to produce in the _What do you want to create today?_ section, you can access brand-approved templates for use in content generation. Use templates to jump start the content creation process and stay aligned with a defined brand identity.

Templates are [uploaded and stored in [!DNL Content]](/help/user-guide/content/overview.md) and are accessible in [!DNL Create].

### Parameters

In the prompt drawer, you can add _Parameters_ such as [!DNL Brands], [!DNL Products], and [!DNL Personas] (guidelines) and [!DNL Content] (assets) to shape the generated experience.

These added parameters inject [guidelines](/help/user-guide/guidelines/overview.md) and assets into the generation process, ensuring that the content is customized to align with a brand's comprehensive identity. It is recommended to add guidelines to your GenStudio for Performance Marketing and use them during the content generation process, as they greatly enhance the creation of suitable on-brand content.

Content—uploaded or added image assets—in _Parameters_ are used in generated variants and inform the copy content (text) generated for variants. You can upload assets or select assets already present in [!DNL Content] or in any connected AEM Content Hub repositories.

### Prompts

[Crafting effective prompts](/help/user-guide/effective-prompts.md) is an important part of the generation process in [!DNL Create].

To create AI-generated content, enter a [descriptive prompt](/help/user-guide/effective-prompts.md) that describes the context or experience you intend to generate, along with [guidelines](/help/user-guide/guidelines/overview.md) and [_Parameters_](#parameters), in the prompt drawer and click **[!UICONTROL Generate]**.

### Brand validation

GenStudio for Performance Marketing conducts brand validation on various aspects of a brand's identity (as defined in [guidelines](/help/user-guide/guidelines/overview.md)). [Brand validation](/help/user-guide/guidelines/brand-validation.md) information is available for any generated content, indicating its compliance with brand guidelines and coherence between text and images. You can use this information to revise or improve your generated experience to better align with your brand.

### Reviews and approvals

Solicit reviews, track review comments, and obtain approvals during the creation process with built-in [Reviews and approvals](/help/user-guide/approvals/overview.md) functionality.

After you are done generating content variations, send your drafts for approval by stakeholders so they can be saved to [!DNL Content] and implemented in marketing efforts.

### Drafts

In the _Recent work_ section of [!DNL Create], access and manage all recent drafts. View and complete your previous work to ready it for publishing to [[!DNL Content]](/help/user-guide/content/overview.md).

Drafts in progress are automatically saved. When you navigate back to the [!DNL Create] home, the _Recent work_ section is updated with your most recent drafts. For each draft, you can see whether it has been _Approved_ or is still in _Draft_ form.

### Manage variants

GenStudio for Performance Marketing allows [comprehensive control over sections of individual variants](/help/user-guide/create/manage-variants.md).

You can revise sections of a single variant, re-generate the content of individual sections and use suggested edits to improve the message, size assets, and more, all within the Canvas.

Commit message:

Add info in Create overview about roles access

help/user-guide/create/overview.md, after:

---
title: Overview of GenStudio for Performance Marketing [!DNL Create]
description: Quickly generate high-performing, on-brand content with generative AI in Adobe GenStudio for Performance Marketing [!DNL Create].
feature: Create, Prompt, Guidelines, Experiences, Content Generation, Approval
exl-id: ca5ee31c-d2c2-42fb-a6bf-05fd63fe86d2
---
# GenStudio for Performance Marketing [!DNL Create]

GenStudio for Performance Marketing [!DNL Create] leverages the power of Adobe GenAI to empower marketers and distributed teams to create high-performing, on-brand experiences.

![Create dashboard](/help/assets/create.png){width="600" zoomable="yes"}

With [!DNL Create], you can generate content for the following channels:

* [Emails](email-experiences.md)
* [Meta ads](meta-experiences.md)
* [Display ads](display-ad-experiences.md)

Along with the power of [guidelines](/help/user-guide/guidelines/overview.md)—[!DNL Brands], [!DNL Products], and [!DNL Personas]—[Content](/help/user-guide/content/overview.md), [Reviews and Approvals](/help/user-guide/approvals/overview.md), and [Insights](/help/user-guide/insights/overview.md), [!DNL Create] facilitates the creation of impactful brand-aligned marketing content.

Editors and system managers have full access to [!DNL Create]. See [User roles and permissions](/help/user-guide/user-roles.md) for detailed role access information.

## [!DNL Create] use cases

<table style="table-layout:fixed">
<tr style="border: 0;">
   <td align="center" valign="top" width="100">
      <a href="/help/user-guide/create/create-email-experience.md">
      <img alt="Create new content" src="../../assets/icons/icon-create.svg" width="35">
      </a>
      <div>
         <a href="/help/user-guide/create/create-email-experience.md">
         <strong>Create an email experience</strong>
         </a>
      </div>
   </td>
   <td align="center" valign="top" width="100">
      <a href="/help/user-guide/create/create-meta-ad.md">
      <img alt="Create a Meta ad experience" src="../../assets/icons/icon-asset.svg" width="35">
      </a>
      <div>
         <a href="/help/user-guide/create/create-meta-ad.md">
         <strong>Create a Meta ad experience</strong>
         </a>
      </div>
   </td>
   <td align="center" valign="top" width="100">
      <a href="/help/user-guide/create/create-display-ad.md">
      <img alt="Create a display ad experience" src="../../assets/icons/icon-addTemplate.svg" width="35">
      </a>
      <div>
         <a href="/help/user-guide/create/create-display-ad.md">
         <strong>Create a display ad experience</strong>
         </a>
      </div>
   </td>
</tr>
</table>

GenStudio for Performance Marketing enables marketers to **create new marketing content**. In this use case, use defined [guidelines](/help/user-guide/guidelines/overview.md) and inspiration images to inform the creation of brand-aligned content.

## [!DNL Create] capabilities

[!DNL Create] integrates various components of GenStudio for Performance Marketing to assist users in generating content.

### Templates

After you select which channel you want to produce in the _What do you want to create today?_ section, you can access brand-approved templates for use in content generation. Use templates to jump start the content creation process and stay aligned with a defined brand identity.

Templates are [uploaded and stored in [!DNL Content]](/help/user-guide/content/overview.md) and are accessible in [!DNL Create].

### Parameters

In the prompt drawer, you can add _Parameters_ such as [!DNL Brands], [!DNL Products], and [!DNL Personas] (guidelines) and [!DNL Content] (assets) to shape the generated experience.

These added parameters inject [guidelines](/help/user-guide/guidelines/overview.md) and assets into the generation process, ensuring that the content is customized to align with a brand's comprehensive identity. It is recommended to add guidelines to your GenStudio for Performance Marketing and use them during the content generation process, as they greatly enhance the creation of suitable on-brand content.

Content—uploaded or added image assets—in _Parameters_ are used in generated variants and inform the copy content (text) generated for variants. You can upload assets or select assets already present in [!DNL Content] or in any connected AEM Content Hub repositories.

### Prompts

[Crafting effective prompts](/help/user-guide/effective-prompts.md) is an important part of the generation process in [!DNL Create].

To create AI-generated content, enter a [descriptive prompt](/help/user-guide/effective-prompts.md) that describes the context or experience you intend to generate, along with [guidelines](/help/user-guide/guidelines/overview.md) and [_Parameters_](#parameters), in the prompt drawer and click **[!UICONTROL Generate]**.

### Brand validation

GenStudio for Performance Marketing conducts brand validation on various aspects of a brand's identity (as defined in [guidelines](/help/user-guide/guidelines/overview.md)). [Brand validation](/help/user-guide/guidelines/brand-validation.md) information is available for any generated content, indicating its compliance with brand guidelines and coherence between text and images. You can use this information to revise or improve your generated experience to better align with your brand.

### Reviews and approvals

Solicit reviews, track review comments, and obtain approvals during the creation process with built-in [Reviews and approvals](/help/user-guide/approvals/overview.md) functionality.

After you are done generating content variations, send your drafts for approval by stakeholders so they can be saved to [!DNL Content] and implemented in marketing efforts.

### Drafts

In the _Recent work_ section of [!DNL Create], access and manage all recent drafts. View and complete your previous work to ready it for publishing to [[!DNL Content]](/help/user-guide/content/overview.md).

Drafts in progress are automatically saved. When you navigate back to the [!DNL Create] home, the _Recent work_ section is updated with your most recent drafts. For each draft, you can see whether it has been _Approved_ or is still in _Draft_ form.

### Manage variants

GenStudio for Performance Marketing allows [comprehensive control over sections of individual variants](/help/user-guide/create/manage-variants.md).

You can revise sections of a single variant, re-generate the content of individual sections and use suggested edits to improve the message, size assets, and more, all within the Canvas.
