help/extensibility/distribute-app.md, before:

---
title: Distribute your app
description: Distribute your app, or Add-on, for GenStudio for Performance Marketing.
exl-id: 4935356b-08df-402c-b1a2-b89627afc188
---
# Distribute your app

Distributing your app makes it available to members in your organization.

>[!BEGINSHADEBOX]

**Prerequisites**:

Confirm that you have the following permissions:

* Developer permissions in the organization from which you submit the app for approval

* System administrator permissions to approve the app

Your App Builder app must be deployed in an App Builder Project.

>[!ENDSHADEBOX] 

**To distribute your app**:

1. From the [Adobe Developer Console](https://developer.adobe.com/console/), select the organization, project, and workspace where the app is deployed.

1. Select **[!UICONTROL Approval]** from the _Workspace overview_ area. The _App Approval_ pane opens. 

1. In the _App Submissions Details_ area, add informative details about your Add-on. Details include app name, description, and contact email. 

1. When you have completed all fields, click **[!UICONTROL Submit]**. 

1. Log in to [Adobe Exchange](https://exchange.adobe.com/) using the same Adobe ID that you used to log into Developer Console. If you do not have system administrator permissions in this organization, request approval from an organization system administrator. 

1. Select **[!UICONTROL Manage]** > **[!UICONTROL App Builder applications]** to access a request to review the app. 

1. After reviewing the app, select **[!UICONTROL Approve]**. Optionally, add informative notes.

Your Add-on is now visible in your organization's GenStudio for Performance Marketing instance.

Commit message:

added info about public distribution to the Distribute your app topic

help/extensibility/distribute-app.md, after:

---
title: Distribute your app
description: Distribute your app, or Add-on, for GenStudio for Performance Marketing.
exl-id: 4935356b-08df-402c-b1a2-b89627afc188
---
# Distribute your app

Distributing your Add-on makes it available for use by your organization and potentially other organizations.

Private distribution restricts the deployment of your Add-on to the organization identified by the IMS org for which you developed your Add-on. Public distribution makes the Add-on available as an app on the Adobe Exchange. Your distribution workflow depends on whether your Add-on is intended for public or private distribution.

This topic discusses private distribution. [Public Distribution](https://developer.adobe.com/app-builder/docs/guides/distribution/public/) describes how to make your app available for any Adobe organization.

>[!BEGINSHADEBOX]

**Prerequisites**:

Confirm that you have the following permissions:

* Developer permissions in the organization from which you submit the app for approval

* System administrator permissions to approve the app

Your App Builder app must be deployed in an App Builder Project.

>[!ENDSHADEBOX] 

**To distribute your app privately**:

Private distribution makes your app available only to members of your organization.

1. From the [Adobe Developer Console](https://developer.adobe.com/console/), select the organization, project, and workspace where the app is deployed.

1. Select **[!UICONTROL Approval]** from the _Workspace overview_ area. The _App Approval_ pane opens. 

1. In the _App Submissions Details_ area, add informative details about your Add-on. Details include app name, description, and contact email. 

1. When you have completed all fields, click **[!UICONTROL Submit]**. 

1. Log in to [Adobe Exchange](https://exchange.adobe.com/) using the same Adobe ID that you used to log into Developer Console. If you do not have system administrator permissions in this organization, request approval from an organization system administrator. 

1. Select **[!UICONTROL Manage]** > **[!UICONTROL App Builder applications]** to access a request to review the app. 

1. After reviewing the app, select **[!UICONTROL Approve]**. Optionally, add informative notes.

Your Add-on is now visible in your organization's GenStudio for Performance Marketing instance.
