help/extensibility/setup.md, before:

---
title: Get started
description: Start building Add-ons or App Builder apps that extend GenStudio for Performance Marketing.
exl-id: 755f1a40-add5-43e3-bf54-eaec36ef1e9a
---
# Get started building extensible apps

GenStudio for Performance Marketing Add-on framework provides tools for organizations to incorporate their own claims compliance protocols into GenStudio for Performance Marketing content creation workflow and validation. With this toolset, developers can create custom apps, or Add-ons.

## Overview

This guide describes the process of creating Add-ons to customize and enhance GenStudio for Performance Marketing core AI-driven content creation capabilities.

Developers of extensible apps for GenStudio for Performance Marketing use the standard Adobe Experience Cloud app development toolset framework to develop and deploy custom apps, or Add-ons. [Adobe App Builder](https://developer.adobe.com/app-builder/) is central to this development toolset.

Add-on creation includes these high-level tasks:

* [Create an App Builder Project](create-project.md)
* [Create and develop an App Builder app](create-app.md)
* [Deploy your app](deploy-app.md)
* [Distribute your app](distribute-app.md)

## Set up your environment

Developers use Adobe App Builder to build custom Add-ons for GenStudio for Performance Marketing. If you are developing a custom app for an Adobe Creative Experience product for the first time, familiarize yourself with the Adobe App Builder framework. See [App Builder documentation](https://developer.adobe.com/app-builder/docs/overview/) for tutorials and discussion. 

### Tools for development

Add-on development includes the following tools and resources:

[Adobe App Builder](https://developer.adobe.com/app-builder/)

[Adobe GenStudio UI Extensibility SDK](https://github.com/adobe/genstudio-uix-sdk)

[Adobe UIX SDK](https://github.com/adobe/uix-sdk)

[React Spectrum](https://react-spectrum.adobe.com/react-spectrum/getting-started.html)

### Environment

Adobe App Builder is enabled by default in the same IMS org where GenStudio for Performance Marketing has been provisioned. 

After setting up your environment, you can [create an App Builder project](create-project.md) and create your app.

Commit message:

updated TOC file and moved Overview content

help/extensibility/setup.md, after:

---
title: Get Started
description: Start building Add-ons or App Builder apps that extend GenStudio for Performance Marketing.
exl-id: 755f1a40-add5-43e3-bf54-eaec36ef1e9a
---
# Get started building extensible apps

GenStudio for Performance Marketing _Add-ons_ are the Adobe App Builder apps that you create to extend product capabilities to support your organization's content creation and validation. In the GenStudio ecosystem, the terms App Builder apps, extensions, and extensible apps all refer to Add-ons.

GenStudio for Performance Marketing Add-on framework provides tools for organizations to incorporate their own claims compliance protocols into GenStudio for Performance Marketing content creation workflow and validation. With this toolset, developers can create custom apps, or Add-ons.

## Overview

This guide describes the process of creating Add-ons to customize and enhance GenStudio for Performance Marketing core AI-driven content creation capabilities.

Developers of extensible apps for GenStudio for Performance Marketing use the standard Adobe Experience Cloud app development toolset framework to develop and deploy custom apps, or Add-ons. [Adobe App Builder](https://developer.adobe.com/app-builder/) is central to this development toolset.

Add-on creation includes these high-level tasks:

* [Create an App Builder Project](create-project.md)
* [Create and develop an App Builder app](create-app.md)
* [Deploy your app](deploy-app.md)
* [Distribute your app](distribute-app.md)

## Set up your environment

Developers use Adobe App Builder to build custom Add-ons for GenStudio for Performance Marketing. If you are developing a custom app for an Adobe Creative Experience product for the first time, familiarize yourself with the Adobe App Builder framework. See [App Builder documentation](https://developer.adobe.com/app-builder/docs/overview/) for tutorials and discussion. 

### Tools for development

Add-on development includes the following tools and resources:

[Adobe App Builder](https://developer.adobe.com/app-builder/)

[Adobe GenStudio UI Extensibility SDK](https://github.com/adobe/genstudio-uix-sdk)

[Adobe UIX SDK](https://github.com/adobe/uix-sdk)

[React Spectrum](https://react-spectrum.adobe.com/react-spectrum/getting-started.html)

### Environment

Adobe App Builder is enabled by default in the same IMS org where GenStudio for Performance Marketing has been provisioned. 

After setting up your environment, you can [create an App Builder project](create-project.md) and create your app.
