help/user-guide/templates/linkedin-template.md, before:

---
title: Template guidelines
description: Follow best practices when using templates with Adobe GenStudio for Performance Marketing.
level: Intermediate
role: Developer, User
feature: Media Templates
---
# Template for guidelines topic

Paragraph about the template type.

Follow these design best practices when customizing LinkedIn ad templates to work with GenStudio for Performance Marketing:

**Constraints**:

- Use of [sections](/help/user-guide/content/customize-template.md#sections-or-groups):
   - Only one section can be used, generating a single set of template elements.
- Exactly one image field is required.
- Maximum image size of 5 MB
- Maximum headline 70 characters
- Maximum introductory text 150 characters

**Supported aspect ratios**:

- Square 1:1
  - desktop or mobile
  - Min: 360 x 360 pixels
  - Max: 4320 x 4320 pixels
- Horizontal 1.91:1
  - desktop
  - Min: 640 x 360 pixels
  - Max: 7680 x 4320 pixels
- Vertical 1:1.91
  - mobile
  - Min: 360 x 640 pixels
  - Max: 2430 x 4320 pixels
- Vertical 2.3
  - mobile
  - Min: 360 x 640 pixels
  - Max: 2430 x 4320 pixels
- Vertical 4.5 (recommended)
  - mobile
  - Min: 360 x 640 pixels
  - Max: 2430 x 4320 pixels

**Recognized field names**:

For LinkedIn ads, the `headline`, `introductory_text`, and `CTA` fields are automatically generated. Use content placeholders for the following fields:

- `image` (selected from Content JPEG, PNG, or GIF)
- `on_image_text`

See [Content placeholders](/help/user-guide/content/customize-template.md#content-placeholders) to understand more about using field names in templates.

Commit message:

move template examples, improve readability

help/user-guide/templates/linkedin-template.md, after:

---
title: Template guidelines
description: Follow best practices when using templates with Adobe GenStudio for Performance Marketing.
level: Intermediate
role: Developer, User
feature: Media Templates
---
# Template for guidelines topic

Paragraph about the template type.

Follow these design best practices when customizing LinkedIn ad templates to work with GenStudio for Performance Marketing:

**Constraints**:

- Use of [sections](/help/user-guide/content/customize-template.md#sections-or-groups):
   - Only one section can be used, generating a single set of template elements.
- Exactly one image field is required.
- Maximum image size of 5 MB
- Maximum headline 70 characters
- Maximum introductory text 150 characters

## Supported aspect ratios

| Aspect Ratio         | Platform           | Min Size (px)      | Max Size (px)      | Notes              |
|----------------------|--------------------|--------------------|--------------------|--------------------|
| Square 1:1           | Desktop, Mobile    | 360 x 360          | 4320 x 4320        |                    |
| Horizontal 1.91:1    | Desktop            | 640 x 360          | 7680 x 4320        |                    |
| Vertical 1:1.91      | Mobile             | 360 x 640          | 2430 x 4320        |                    |
| Vertical 2.3         | Mobile             | 360 x 640          | 2430 x 4320        |                    |
| Vertical 4:5         | Mobile             | 360 x 640          | 2430 x 4320        | Recommended        |

## Recognized field names

For LinkedIn ads, the following fields are automatically generated by GenStudio for Performance Marketing:

- `headline`
- `introductory_text`
- `cta` (Call to Action)

When customizing your template, apply content placeholders for these required fields:

- `image`: The main visual asset, which must be a JPEG, PNG, or GIF file.
- `on_image_text`: Text that appears over the image.

For more details on using content placeholders and field names in templates, see [Content placeholders](/help/user-guide/content/customize-template.md#content-placeholders).

<!-- Potentially add an example

## Template example

+++Example: LinkedIn template

+++

-->
