help/user-guide/templates/starter-templates.md, before:

---
title: Prepare an email template for GenStudio for Performance Marketing
description: Learn how to prepare an email template for use in Adobe GenStudio for Performance Marketing.
level: Beginner
feature: Media Templates
hide: yes
hidefromtoc: yes
recommendations: noDisplay, noCatalog
exl-id: 47dbebd1-f2d8-4a9d-b86c-2d398af259f6
---
# Starter templates

_Starter templates_ are predefined template options designed to help you get started quickly with GenStudio for Performance Marketing and learn how to create effective media. In [!DNL Create], select a media type. If starter templates are available, switch to the **[!UICONTROL Starter templates]** tab to browse and select a template that fits your needs.

![Starter templates tab](/help/assets/starter-templates.png "Select template tabs"){width="350"}

## Choosing the right aspect ratio

Selecting the appropriate aspect ratio for your ad is important for maximizing impact and ensuring your content displays correctly across different platforms and placements. Consider the following when choosing an aspect ratio:

- **Campaign objectives**—Define your goals (brand awareness, engagement, conversions) to determine which placements and formats best support them.
- **Platform requirements**—Each paid media channel has recommended aspect ratios for different placements.
- **Content visibility**—Some aspect ratios show more of your creative, while others may crop or resize your content.

Review your campaign goals and placement options before selecting a template. For all templates, keep key visuals and messaging within safe zones to avoid cropping and review platform-specific requirements before finalizing your creative.

## Available starter templates

The following summarizes available starter templates, their supported media types, aspect ratios, and usage guidance for each media channel.

### LinkedIn ad templates

All aspect ratios are supported for static images. For video, use 9:16 for LinkedIn Stories and ensure that your video is optimized for short, vertical formats.

| Aspect Ratio | Orientation  | Guidance                                                                                       |
|--------------|--------------|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| 1:1          | Square       | Consistent appearance across devices and placements.                                           |
| 1.91:1       | Landscape    | Standard for news feeds or sponsored content. Keep key visuals/messaging within safe zones.    |
| 1:1.91       | Portrait     | Tall vertical format. Keep key visuals/messaging within safe zones.                            |
| 2:3, 4:5     | Portrait     | Suited for portrait formats and helps the creative stand out on mobile devices.                |
| 9:16         | Vertical     | Best for LinkedIn Stories (full-screen experience for video).                                  |

### Meta Ad templates

All aspect ratios are supported for static images and video media types.

| Aspect Ratio | Orientation  | Guidance                                                                                       |
|--------------|--------------|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| 1:1          | Square       | Recommended for feed posts, carousel ads, and feed videos for broad compatibility.             |
| 1.91:1       | Landscape    | Best for banners, link ads, and widescreen video ads.                                          |
| 4:5          | Portrait     | Ideal for mobile feeds; maximizes vertical space and visibility, especially for video content. |
| 9:16         | Vertical     | Designed for Stories and Reels, providing an immersive full-screen experience.                 |

Commit message:

unhide starter templates and mark as beta

help/user-guide/templates/starter-templates.md, after:

---
title: Prepare an email template for GenStudio for Performance Marketing
description: Learn how to prepare an email template for use in Adobe GenStudio for Performance Marketing.
level: Beginner
feature: Media Templates
badgeBeta: label="Beta" tooltip="This feature is currently in Beta, so some functionality may be limited or subject to change."
recommendations: noDisplay, noCatalog
exl-id: 47dbebd1-f2d8-4a9d-b86c-2d398af259f6
---
# Starter templates

_Starter templates_ are predefined template options designed to help you get started quickly with GenStudio for Performance Marketing and learn how to create effective media. In [!DNL Create], select a media type. If starter templates are available, switch to the **[!UICONTROL Starter templates]** tab to browse and select a template that fits your needs.

![Starter templates tab](/help/assets/starter-templates.png "Select template tabs"){width="350"}

Selecting the appropriate aspect ratio for your ad is important for maximizing impact and ensuring your content displays correctly across different platforms and placements. Consider the following when choosing an aspect ratio:

- **Campaign objectives**—Define your goals (brand awareness, engagement, conversions) to determine which placements and formats best support them.
- **Platform requirements**—Each paid media channel has recommended aspect ratios for different placements.
- **Content visibility**—Some aspect ratios show more of your creative, while others may crop or resize your content.

Review your campaign goals and placement options before selecting a template. For all templates, keep key visuals and messaging within safe zones to avoid cropping and review platform-specific requirements before finalizing your creative.

## Available starter templates

The following summarizes available starter templates, their supported media types, aspect ratios, and usage guidance for each media channel.

### LinkedIn ad templates

All aspect ratios are supported for static images. For video, use 9:16 for LinkedIn Stories and ensure that your video is optimized for short, vertical formats.

| Aspect Ratio | Orientation  | Guidance                                                                                       |
|--------------|--------------|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| 1:1          | Square       | Consistent appearance across devices and placements.                                           |
| 1.91:1       | Landscape    | Standard for news feeds or sponsored content. Keep key visuals/messaging within safe zones.    |
| 1:1.91       | Portrait     | Tall vertical format. Keep key visuals/messaging within safe zones.                            |
| 2:3, 4:5     | Portrait     | Suited for portrait formats and helps the creative stand out on mobile devices.                |
| 9:16         | Vertical     | Best for LinkedIn Stories (full-screen experience for video).                                  |

### Meta Ad templates

All aspect ratios are supported for static images and video media types.

| Aspect Ratio | Orientation  | Guidance                                                                                       |
|--------------|--------------|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| 1:1          | Square       | Recommended for feed posts, carousel ads, and feed videos for broad compatibility.             |
| 1.91:1       | Landscape    | Best for banners, link ads, and widescreen video ads.                                          |
| 4:5          | Portrait     | Ideal for mobile feeds; maximizes vertical space and visibility, especially for video content. |
| 9:16         | Vertical     | Designed for Stories and Reels, providing an immersive full-screen experience.                 |
