help/user-guide/activation/activate-linkedin-ad.md, before:

---
title: Activate a LinkedIn ad
description: Learn how to activate a LinkedIn ad experience.
feature: Ad Activation
badgeBeta: label="Beta" tooltip="This feature is currently in Beta, so some functionality may be limited or subject to change."
---
# Activate a LinkedIn ad

Adobe GenStudio for Performance Marketing supports the activation of LinkedIn experiences with single assets to [LinkedIn Campaign Manager](https://business.linkedin.com/marketing-solutions) and LinkedIn pages.

You can [create a LinkedIn experience](/help/user-guide/create/create-linkedin.md) in GenStudio for Performance Marketing and select it for activation, or construct a new experience from approved assets in [!DNL Activate].

Activating a LinkedIn ad follows the [same general steps](create-activation.md) required for activation to other paid channels. The activation process supports preparing your ad experience for LinkedIn's specific requirements. After you activate a LinkedIn experience in GenStudio for Performance Marketing, use LinkedIn Campaign Manager to fine-tune the experience for specific LinkedIn ad placements before final publication.

GenStudio system managers and editors can activate ad experiences.

## Step 1: Set up your LinkedIn accounts

Before launching an activation, [sign in to](https://www.linkedin.com/campaignmanager/login) your LinkedIn Campaign Manager account.

>[!BEGINSHADEBOX]

**Prerequisites**:

* A LinkedIn Campaign Manager account with full permission to manage campaign groups, campaigns, and ads. This account must contain campaign groups and campaigns.

* LinkedIn ad accounts with full permission to create ads and post content on LinkedIn pages.


>[!ENDSHADEBOX]

## Step 2: Connect to your LinkedIn accounts

Before your organization can activate experiences, a GenStudio system manager must connect your LinkedIn accounts to GenStudio for Performance Marketing. This connection allows data to flow between GenStudio and external marketing tools such as LinkedIn, enabling the activation process.

After the sync has completed, you can view the added accounts. Large amounts of data take longer to sync.

## Step 3: Prepare your experience

You can launch an activation by selecting one or more approved experiences with predefined settings from [!DNL Content].

The _Experience setup_ view is a workspace for tweaking and reviewing experiences before activation. If you select more than one experience to activate, the this view includes a left sidebar that displays thumbnails of all selected experiences. Use this left sidebar to focus the _Experience setup_ view on the selected experience's details.

The _Preview panel_ supports an interactive view of your text and assets in the context of a specific ad placement. Use the _Select placement_ drop-down menu to switch among supported ad placements. Previews provide the opportunity to finalize decisions about ad elements for specific placements. When you select a placement in the _Preview_ panel, only your view of the ad is affected. Your placement selection in the _Preview_ panel is not saved.

### Activate an approved experience from Content

You can select one or more experiences to activate to a single paid channel. Experiences can contain only one asset. Details are loaded from the selected approved experiences.

Editable experience details include:

* Call-to-action (CTA) text
* Website URL
* Display link

**To select experiences**:

1. Use the [!DNL Content] gallery's search and filter tools to identify the experience you want to activate, then click **[!UICONTROL Activate]**. Alternatively, you can select one experience and select **[!UICONTROL Activate]** from the more (...) menu.

   The LinkedIn ads _Experience setup_ page opens for this experience. It is pre-populated with details from the selected experience. You may be asked to select a platform before continuing with activation.

1. (Optional) Edit values in the editable fields (**[!UICONTROL Call to action]**, **[!UICONTROL Website URL]**, *[!UICONTROL Display link]**).
   
1. (Optional) Click **[!UICONTROL Add experience]** to add experiences to this activation group.

1. Click **[!UICONTROL Next]** to confirm your experience setup.

## Step 4: Confirm LinkedIn account setup

After preparing your ad experiences, you must confirm your LinkedIn account information. The _LinkedIn ad setup_ view is populated with options that are derived from the configured LinkedIn accounts.

**To confirm your account setup**:

1. Select an account from the **[!UICONTROL Account]**  drop-down menu. Options are LinkedIn accounts that have been connected to GenStudio for Performance Marketing.

1. Select a campaign group from the **[!UICONTROL Campaign group]** drop-down menu. This is the LinkedIn campaign group where the experience is published.

1. Select a campaign from the **[!UICONTROL Campaigns]** drop-down menu. This is the LinkedIn campaign to which the ad experience is delivered.

1. Enter an ad name in the **[!UICONTROL Ad name]** field for each experience. LinkedIn Campaign Manager identifies the experience by this name.

1. Click **[!UICONTROL Next]** to confirm your LinkedIn ads setup.

## Step 5: Preview and activate your ad

The _Review_ page provides a final opportunity to review your activation before publishing.

**To review and publish your experience**:

1. (Optional) Click **[!UICONTROL Edit section]** next to the experience or platform details that you want to edit.
   Depending on the section you selected, the _Experiences setup_ or _Platform setup_ view opens.

1. (Optional) Edit details, then click **[!UICONTROL Next]** to return to the _Review_ view.

1. Click **[!UICONTROL Publish]**.

   The complete LinkedIn ad experience and its associated metadata are pushed directly into the designated LinkedIn Campaigns Manager campaign. Experiences are delivered in an inactive state. From LinkedIn Campaign Manager, you can manage the final steps of deploying the ad experience and LinkedIn campaign.

## Step 6: Complete publication of your ad experience

1. [Sign in to](https://www.linkedin.com/campaignmanager/login) your LinkedIn Campaign Manager account to review your ad experience and finalize publication to specific LinkedIn pages.

Commit message:

added definition of campaign group

help/user-guide/activation/activate-linkedin-ad.md, after:

---
title: Activate a LinkedIn ad
description: Learn how to activate a LinkedIn ad experience.
feature: Ad Activation
badgeBeta: label="Beta" tooltip="This feature is currently in Beta, so some functionality may be limited or subject to change."
---
# Activate a LinkedIn ad

Adobe GenStudio for Performance Marketing supports the activation of LinkedIn experiences with single assets to [LinkedIn Campaign Manager](https://business.linkedin.com/marketing-solutions) and LinkedIn pages.

You can [create a LinkedIn experience](/help/user-guide/create/create-linkedin.md) in GenStudio for Performance Marketing and select it for activation, or construct a new experience from approved assets in [!DNL Activate].

Activating a LinkedIn ad follows the [same general steps](create-activation.md) required for activation to other paid channels. The activation process supports preparing your ad experience for LinkedIn's specific requirements. After you activate a LinkedIn experience in GenStudio for Performance Marketing, use LinkedIn Campaign Manager to fine-tune the experience for specific LinkedIn ad placements before final publication.

GenStudio system managers and editors can activate ad experiences.

## Step 1: Set up your LinkedIn accounts

Before launching an activation, [sign in to](https://www.linkedin.com/campaignmanager/login) your LinkedIn Campaign Manager account.

>[!BEGINSHADEBOX]

**Prerequisites**:

* A LinkedIn Campaign Manager account with full permission to manage campaign groups, campaigns, and ads. This account must contain campaign groups and campaigns.

* LinkedIn ad accounts with full permission to create ads and post content on LinkedIn pages.


>[!ENDSHADEBOX]

## Step 2: Connect to your LinkedIn accounts

Before your organization can activate experiences, a GenStudio system manager must connect your LinkedIn accounts to GenStudio for Performance Marketing. This connection allows data to flow between GenStudio and external marketing tools such as LinkedIn, enabling the activation process.

After the sync has completed, you can view the added accounts. Large amounts of data take longer to sync.

## Step 3: Prepare your experience

You can launch an activation by selecting one or more approved experiences with predefined settings from [!DNL Content].

The _Experience setup_ view is a workspace for tweaking and reviewing experiences before activation. If you select more than one experience to activate, this view includes a left sidebar that displays thumbnails of all selected experiences. Use this left sidebar to focus the _Experience setup_ view on the selected experience's details.

The _Preview panel_ supports an interactive view of your text and assets in the context of a specific ad placement. Use the _Select placement_ drop-down menu to switch among supported ad placements. Previews provide the opportunity to finalize decisions about ad elements for specific placements. When you select a placement in the _Preview_ panel, only your view of the ad is affected. Your placement selection in the _Preview_ panel is not saved.

### Activate an approved experience from Content

You can select one or more experiences to activate to a single paid channel. Experiences can contain only one asset. Details are loaded from the selected approved experiences.

Editable experience details include:

* Call-to-action (CTA) text
* Website URL
* Display link

**To select experiences**:

1. Use the [!DNL Content] gallery's search and filter tools to identify the experience you want to activate, then click **[!UICONTROL Activate]**. Alternatively, you can select one experience and select **[!UICONTROL Activate]** from the more (...) menu.

   The LinkedIn ads _Experience setup_ page opens for this experience. It is pre-populated with details from the selected experience. You may be asked to select a platform before continuing with activation.

1. (Optional) Edit values in the editable fields (**[!UICONTROL Call to action]**, **[!UICONTROL Website URL]**, *[!UICONTROL Display link]**).
   
1. (Optional) Click **[!UICONTROL Add experience]** to add experiences to this activation group.

1. Click **[!UICONTROL Next]** to confirm your experience setup.

## Step 4: Confirm LinkedIn account setup

After preparing your ad experiences, you must confirm your LinkedIn account information. The _LinkedIn ad setup_ view is populated with options that are derived from the configured LinkedIn accounts.

_Campaign groups_ are an essential component of LinkedIn  Campaign Manager. Campaign groups organize discrete campaigns under a shared objective. Campaigns can inherit budget limitations, objectives, and schedules from the campaign group to which they belong.

**To confirm your account setup**:

1. Select an account from the **[!UICONTROL Account]**  drop-down menu. Options are LinkedIn accounts that have been connected to GenStudio for Performance Marketing.

1. Select a campaign group from the **[!UICONTROL Campaign group]** drop-down menu. This is the LinkedIn campaign group where the experience is published.

1. Select a campaign from the **[!UICONTROL Campaigns]** drop-down menu. This is the LinkedIn campaign to which the ad experience is delivered.

1. Enter an ad name in the **[!UICONTROL Ad name]** field for each experience. LinkedIn Campaign Manager identifies the experience by this name.

1. Click **[!UICONTROL Next]** to confirm your LinkedIn ads setup.

## Step 5: Preview and activate your ad

The _Review_ page provides a final opportunity to review your activation before publishing.

**To review and publish your experience**:

1. (Optional) Click **[!UICONTROL Edit section]** next to the experience or platform details that you want to edit.
   Depending on the section you selected, the _Experiences setup_ or _Platform setup_ view opens.

1. (Optional) Edit details, then click **[!UICONTROL Next]** to return to the _Review_ view.

1. Click **[!UICONTROL Publish]**.

   The complete LinkedIn ad experience and its associated metadata are pushed directly into the designated LinkedIn Campaigns Manager campaign. Experiences are delivered in an inactive state. From LinkedIn Campaign Manager, you can manage the final steps of deploying the ad experience and LinkedIn campaign.

## Step 6: Complete publication of your ad experience

1. [Sign in to](https://www.linkedin.com/campaignmanager/login) your LinkedIn Campaign Manager account to review your ad experience and finalize publication to specific LinkedIn pages.
